
  +------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                  |
  |              VOL. I.     JANUARY, 1847.     NO. 1.               |
  |                                                                  |
  +------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                  |
  |                           NEW ENGLAND                            |
  |               Historical & Genealogical Register:                |
  |                                                                  |
  |                                                                  |
  |                       PUBLISHED QUARTERLY,                       |
  |                                                                  |
  |                    UNDER THE DIRECTION OF THE                    |
  |           NEW ENGLAND HISTORIC, GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY.            |
  |                                                                  |
  |              REV. WILLIAM COGSWELL, D. D., EDITOR.               |
  |                                                                  |
  |                          [Illustration]                          |
  |                                                                  |
  |                             BOSTON:                              |
  |                   SAMUEL G. DRAKE, PUBLISHER,                    |
  |                         NO. 56 CORNHILL.                         |
  |                              1847.                               |
  |                                                                  |
  +------------------------------------------------------------------+
  |                                                                  |
  |            COOLIDGE & WILEY. Printers, Water Street.             |
  |                                                                  |
  +------------------------------------------------------------------+




CONTENTS.


                                                                     Page.

  Memoir of John Farmer, M. A.,                                          9

  Genealogical Memoir of the Farmer Family,                             21

  Memoirs of Graduates of Harvard College,                              34

  Congregational Ministers and Churches in Rockingham County,
      N. H.,                                                            40

  Foreign Missionaries from Norwich, Ct.,                               46

  Passengers in the Mayflower in 1620,                                  47

  Major Pendleton's Letter,                                             53

  Capt. Miles Standish's Inventory of Books,                            54

  Juridical Statistics of Merrimack County, N. H.,                      54

  Biographical Notices of Deceased Physicians in Massachusetts,         60

  Extract from a Letter of Hon. William Cranch,                         65

  Letter from Rev. John Walrond to Rev. William Waldron,                66

  Form of a Family Register,                                            67

  Genealogy of the Chase Family,                                        68

      "     "   "  Dudley Family,                                       71

  Epitaphs,                                                             72

  Instances of Longevity in Belfast, Me.,                               73

  Scraps from Interleaved Almanacs,                                     73

  Decease of the Fathers of New England,                                74

  Notice of Governor Bradstreet,                                        75

  Sketches of Alumni at the different Colleges in New England,          77

  The Fathers of New England,                                           91

  Governor Hinckley's Verses on the Death of his second Consort,        92

  Biographical Notices of Physicians in Kingston, N. H.,                95

  Register of Births in Dedham,                                         99

  Anniversary of the New England Society at Cincinnati,                100

  Notices of New Publications,                                         100

[Illustration: G. L. Brown.

S. Schoff.

LANDING OF THE PILGRIMS AT PLIMOUTH 11ᵗʰ DEC. 1620.]

[Illustration: _T. Moore direxit, Boston._

JOHN FARMER, M. A.

Cor. Sec'ry N. H. Historical Society.

From a miniature painted in 1824.

_Engraved for the American Quarterly Register._]

                              NEW ENGLAND

  HISTORICAL AND GENEALOGICAL REGISTER.

  =====================================
  VOL. I.     JANUARY, 1847.     NO. 1.
                 =====================================




MEMOIR OF JOHN FARMER, M. A.,

LATE CORRESPONDING SECRETARY OF THE NEW HAMPSHIRE HISTORICAL SOCIETY.


John Farmer, who was the most distinguished Genealogist and Antiquary
of this country, was born at Chelmsford, Ms., June 12, 1789.[1] He was
the eldest son of John Farmer, who married, January 24, 1788, Lydia
Richardson, daughter of Josiah Richardson of Chelmsford, Ms. His father
was the son of Oliver Farmer, born July 31, 1728, who was the son of
Edward, born at Ansley, Warwickshire, England, who emigrated to this
country about the year 1670, and settled at Billerica, Ms.[2]

Mr. Farmer inherited a feeble constitution. From early life till death,
his appearance was that of a person in the last stage of a consumption.
But notwithstanding his great bodily infirmity, he was enabled by his
industry and perseverance to accomplish wonders.

From childhood, he was fond of books and study; ever diligent as a
scholar, and excelling most of his school-fellows in his acquisitions
of knowledge. Hours which, during recess or vacation, the more hardy
and robust would spend in athletic games and youthful sports, he was
disposed to employ in poring over books of history, geography and
chronology, inquiring after ancient records and papers, looking into
the genealogy of families, and copying and treasuring up anecdotes and
traditions of Indians and Revolutionary struggles. In his fondness
for writing, and for copying antiquarian, civil, ecclesiastical and
literary matters, he almost insensibly acquired a beautiful style
of penmanship, which gave to all his manuscripts a peculiar air of
neatness and grace. A favorite of the clergyman of his native place, he
was allowed free access to his books and papers, and thus he imbibed
those impressions of filial respect for the ministers of the gospel,
which he exhibited on all occasions through life. He regarded, with
great reverence, the clerical profession, looking upon the ministers of
the cross as indeed "the messengers of God."

At the age of sixteen, he became a clerk in a store at Amherst, N. H.
Here he remained five years, giving diligent attention to the business
of his employers, and devoting his leisure hours to literary studies
and correspondence. In a letter to the Rev. Hezekiah Packard, D. D.,
who had been his teacher before he went to Amherst, Mr. Farmer spoke
with affection and gratitude of his early Instructor; and in a reply,
dated Wiscasset, Me., Dec. 4, 1809, the Doctor says, "If any of my
friendly and religious counsels, or any books I put into your hands,
made deep and lasting impressions upon your tender mind, you will
join me in giving praise and glory to God and the Redeemer. I can
truly say of my pupils, as St. John did of those he had converted to
the Christian faith, 'I have no greater joy than seeing them walking
in the truth.' I am much pleased with the account you give of your
industry and progress. If you have no idea of a college education,
it might appear as useful to you to become more familiar with your
favorite branches, geography, history, the constitutions of our State
governments and that of our common country, as well as with the origin
and progress of wars, and other calamities of the eastern world." No
pupil, probably, ever more highly valued an instructor, than did young
Farmer; and that he placed a high estimate upon the teachings of Dr.
Packard, is sufficiently shown by his affectionate remembrance of him,
and by his pursuits in after life, and the results of his many labors.

In the course of the year 1810, finding the labors of his station too
arduous for his feeble health, Mr. Farmer left the store, and engaged
in teaching school, an employment in which he is said to have greatly
excelled. Two or three years previous to this, a literary association
for mutual improvement was formed at Amherst, the members of which
met weekly for debate, the rehearsal of pieces, and reading original
compositions. Of this society, Mr. Farmer was for about eleven
years the chief supporter, contributing largely to the interest and
usefulness of the meetings by his own performances, and by inviting
and attracting to it the young men of promise that were about him. The
neighboring clergy were made honorary members of it, and frequently
attended its meetings, and participated in the discussions.

While engaged in school-keeping, Mr. Farmer cultivated his natural
taste, and pursued, with industry, historical inquiries. In 1813,
becoming known to some of the Members of the Massachusetts Historical
Society, he was elected a Corresponding Member of it, and immediately
became a contributor to its Collections, which have been published.
In 1816, he published, in a pamphlet form, his "Historical Sketch of
Billerica," and furnished many valuable facts towards the materials for
the History of Chelmsford, afterwards published by the Rev. Mr. Allen.
In 1820, he published "An Historical Sketch of Amherst from the first
settlement of the town," in pamphlet form. In these two publications,
the marked peculiarities of his mind are strongly exhibited. He evinced
a memory wonderfully tenacious of particular facts, dates, and names,
sound judgment in collecting, selecting, and arranging his materials,
and an exquisite niceness and exactness in all the details of these
histories.

About this time, Mr. Farmer commenced the study of medicine with
Dr. Matthias Spalding, an eminent Physician of Amherst; but after
a few months, foreseeing that he should be unfitted to discharge
the laborious duties of the profession, he relinquished the study;
and in 1821, removed to Concord. He there formed a connection in
business with Dr. Samuel Morril, and opened an apothecary's store,
from which circumstance he received the title of _Doctor_. His feeble
health not allowing any kind of hard manual labor, or exposure to the
changes of weather out of doors, he, partly of necessity and partly
of choice, adopted a very sedentary mode of life. He was rarely away
from his place of residence. He deemed it hazardous for him to leave
home. In 1836, however, after a lapse of eighteen years, he visited
Boston, where he was treated with marked respect and attention by the
_literati_ of the city; but was quite ill, while there, and unable to
enjoy very much of what he expected from his visit. He soon returned
home, restored to comparative health.

From the time of his removal to Concord, Mr. Farmer devoted himself
_principally_ to what had become his favorite studies and pursuits. He
gathered together books of ancient date, early records of the towns,
and notices of the first settlers of the country; inquired into the
names, ages, characters and deaths of distinguished men of every
profession; and entered into extensive correspondence with individuals
who might be able to furnish him with facts, relating to the subjects
of his inquiry. In short, he soon became known as an Antiquary,
distinguished beyond any of his fellow-citizens, for exact knowledge of
facts and events relative to the history of New Hampshire, and of New
England generally. His mind was a wonderful repository of names, and
dates, and particular incidents; and so general and well established
was his reputation for accuracy of memory, that his authority was
relied on as decisive in historical and genealogical facts. And though
at times, he might have been inaccurate, it is to be remembered, that,
while he was the greatest Genealogist and Antiquary of the country,
he was also the _Pioneer_ in this department of knowledge; and while
some, who shall follow him, may _occasionally_ discover a mistake, the
_honor_ of _this_ is not to be compared to the _honor_ of _projecting_
and _executing_ such works as Mr. Farmer's.

In 1822, Mr. Farmer, in connection with Jacob B. Moore, Esq., commenced
a Periodical Miscellany, devoted principally to, "1. Historical
Sketches of Indian wars, battles, and exploits; of the adventures and
sufferings of the captives: 2. Topographical Descriptions of towns and
places in New Hampshire, with their history, civil and ecclesiastical:
3. Biographical Memoirs and Anecdotes of eminent and remarkable
persons who lived in New Hampshire, or who have had connection with
its settlement and history: 4. Statistical Tables; Tables of Births,
Diseases, and Deaths: 5. Meteorological Observations, and facts
relating to climate." Three volumes of this work were published.

In the same year he received the honorary degree of Master of Arts
from Dartmouth College; and in the following year he was complimented
with the appointment of Justice of the Peace for the newly constituted
county of Merrimack, but he did not deem the office of sufficient
importance, ever to act under his commission.

The New Hampshire Historical Society was established, May 20, 1823;
and, although Mr. Farmer was unable to be present at any of the early
meetings of its founders, he took a deep interest in its establishment,
and contributed much towards its organization and success. Though
he was never more than once or twice present at the meetings of the
Society, yet he never failed to communicate with the members, by letter
or otherwise, on such occasions. He was Corresponding Secretary of
the Society till his death, the duties of which office he discharged
with rare ability and fidelity. Of the five volumes of Collections,
published by the Society, he was on the Publishing Committee of four.
The fifth volume was wholly compiled by him, and all the preceding
volumes are enriched by his contributions.

In 1823, Mr. Farmer, with an associate, Jacob B. Moore, Esq., published
"A Gazetteer of the State of New Hampshire, comprehending, 1. A concise
description of the several towns in the State, in relation to their
boundaries, divisions, mountains, lakes, ponds: 2. The early history of
each town; names of the first settlers, and what were their hardships
and adventures; instances of longevity, or of great mortality; and
short biographical notices of the most distinguished and useful men:
3. A concise notice of the formation of the first churches in the
several towns; the names of those who have been successively ordained
as ministers, and the time of their settlement, removal or death: 4.
Also, notices of permanent charitable and other institutions, literary
societies, &c." This work was one of immense labor.

Mr. Farmer's published works are very numerous; and, considering
his infirm state of health during the whole seventeen years of his
residence in Concord, those who best knew him were surprised at the
extent and variety of his labors. The following is believed to be an
accurate list of his productions, with the exception of his occasional
contributions to the newspapers, or other ephemeral publications.

1. A Family Register of the Descendants of Edward Farmer, of Billerica,
in the youngest branch of his Family. 12mo, pp. 12. Concord, 1813;
with an Appendix, 12mo, pp. 7. Concord, 1824. This work, with some
additions, was reprinted at Hingham, in 1828.

2. A Sketch of Amherst, N. H., published in 2 Coll. Mass. Hist. Soc.
ii. Boston, 1814.

3. A Topographical and Historical Description of the County of
Hillsborough, N. H., published in 2 Coll. Mass. Hist. Soc. vii. Boston,
1818.

4. An Historical Memoir of Billerica, Ms., containing Notices of the
principal events in the Civil and Ecclesiastical Affairs of the Town,
from its first settlement to 1816. 8vo, pp. 36. Amherst, 1816.

5. An Historical Sketch of Amherst, N. H., from the first settlement to
1820. 8vo, pp. 35. Amherst, 1820. A second edition, much enlarged, was
published at Concord, in 1837. 8vo, pp. 52.

6. An Ecclesiastical Register of New Hampshire; containing a succinct
account of the different religious denominations; their origin, and
progress, and present numbers; with a Catalogue of the Ministers of
the several Churches, from 1638 to 1821; the date of their settlement,
removal, or death, and the number of communicants in 1821. 18mo, pp.
36. Concord, 1822.

7. The New Military Guide, a compilation of Rules and Regulations for
the use of the Militia. 12mo, pp. 144. Concord, 1822.

8. The New Hampshire Annual Register and United States Calendar,
published annually at Concord, from 1822 to 1838, inclusive, seventeen
numbers, each consisting of 144 pages, 18mo, excepting those for 1823
and 1824, which were in 12mo, pp. 152, 132.

9. A Gazetteer of the State of New Hampshire, with a Map, and several
Engravings, (in conjunction with Jacob B. Moore, Esq.) 12mo, pp. 276.
Concord, 1823.

10. Collections, Historical and Miscellaneous, (in connection with J.
B. Moore, Esq.) 3 vols. 8vo, pp. 302, 388, 388. With an Appendix to
Vols. II. and III. pp. 110, 97. Concord, 1822, 1823, 1824.

11. Memoir of the Penacook Indians, published in an Appendix to Moore's
Annals of Concord, 1824. 8vo, pp. 7.

12. A Genealogical Register of the First Settlers of New England,
containing an Alphabetical List of the Governors, Deputy Governors,
Assistants or Counsellors, and Ministers of the Gospel, in the several
Colonies, from 1620 to 1692; Representatives of the General Court of
Massachusetts, from 1634 to 1692; Graduates of Harvard College, to
1662; Members of the Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company, to 1662;
Freemen admitted to the Massachusetts Colony, from 1630 to 1662; with
many other of the early inhabitants of New England and Long Island, N.
Y., from 1620 to the year 1675; to which are added various Genealogical
and Biographical Notes, collected from Ancient Records, Manuscripts,
and printed Works.

13. A Catechism of the History of New Hampshire, from its first
settlement, for Schools and Families. 18mo, pp. 87. Concord, 1829.
Second edition, 18mo, pp. 108, in 1830.

14. The Concord Directory. 12mo, pp. 24. Concord, 1830.

15. Pastors, Deacons, and Members of the First Congregational Church
in Concord, N. H., from Nov. 18, 1730, to Nov. 18, 1830. 8vo, pp. 21.
Concord, 1830.

16. An edition of the Constitution of New Hampshire, with Questions;
designed for the use of Academics and District Schools in said State.
18mo, pp. 68. Concord, 1831.

17. A new edition of Belknap; containing various Corrections and
Illustrations of the first and second volumes of Dr. Belknap's History
of New Hampshire, and additional Facts and Notices of Persons and
Events therein mentioned. Published in 1 vol. 8vo, pp. 512. Dover, 1831.

18. Papers in the Second and Third Series of the Massachusetts
Historical Collections.

19. Papers in the five published volumes of Collections of the New
Hampshire Historical Society.

20. Papers in the American Quarterly Register, viz: Sketches of the
First Graduates of Dartmouth College, from 1771 to 1783; List of the
Congregational and Presbyterian Ministers of New Hampshire, from its
first settlement to 1814; List of the Graduates of all the Colleges of
New England, containing about 19,000 names; List of eight hundred and
forty deceased Ministers who were graduated at Harvard College, from
1642 to 1826, together with their ages, the time of their graduation
and of their decease; and Memoirs of Ministers who have graduated at
Harvard College to 1657.

It will be obvious that these works required severe labor and unwearied
care in their preparation. Of Mr. Farmer's edition of Belknap's History
of New Hampshire it is sufficient to say, that the work is very much
improved by the Annotator, who has embodied a great mass of valuable
matter in his notes relative to the subjects of which he treated. It
was his intention to have prepared a second volume for the press, and
he had collected a mass of materials for the work, but did not live to
accomplish his design.

The Genealogical Register is a most wonderful exhibition of persevering
industry. It may justly be called his _great work_, both on account
of the quantity of matter which it contains and the difficulty of
tracing out branches of families, where we have no regular genealogy.
It embraces many thousands of names of persons, with dates of birth,
death, offices sustained, places of residence, &c., chiefly through
the seventeenth century. For one who is fond of genealogical
investigations, there is no treasure-house like it. There are but
a few surnames found in New England, during the two centuries of
our existence, which do not there appear. Had Mr. Farmer published
nothing else, this would remain a lasting monument of his patient
research and marvellous accuracy. He has left a corrected copy of his
Register, greatly enlarged by successive additions, corrections, and
illustrations. He has also left several valuable manuscripts, more or
less complete, containing Sketches of deceased Lawyers, Physicians,
Counsellors, and Senators in New Hampshire; Tables of Mortality and
Longevity; Memoirs of more than two thousand early graduates of Harvard
College, and also of many graduates of Dartmouth College. Those of
Dartmouth College consist only of a few memoranda of those individuals
who received their degrees prior to 1799.[3]

A great labor, and the one on which Mr. Farmer had been engaged for
a considerable time previous to his death, was the examining and
arranging of the State Papers at Concord. Under a resolution of the
Legislature of New Hampshire, approved Jan. 3, 1837, he was appointed
to "examine, arrange, index, prepare for, and superintend the binding,
and otherwise preserving, such of the public papers in the archives of
the State, as may be deemed worthy of such care." Of this species of
labor, no one knows the extent and difficulty, unless he has either
himself been versed in it, or has frequently watched its progress
when undertaken by others. Mr. Farmer, in a letter to a distinguished
literary friend in Massachusetts, written in August, 1837, says, in
reference to it, "that he has had a great burden resting on him for
the last four or five months;" and adds, "the records and files were
in great confusion, no attempt having been made for arranging and
binding a regular series of the former or for properly labelling and
classifying the latter. In a few cases, I believe, there were papers
of three centuries in the same bundle. This will serve to give you an
idea of the confusion in which I found them. I began first with the
Province Records, arranged under three different heads: 1. Journals of
the House; 2. Journals of the Council and Assembly; 3. Journals of the
Council. The Journals of the House received my first attention. These
I found to commence in 1711, and from that time to 1775, they existed
in twenty different portions, some in leaves, and in mere paper
books, of a few sheets each. Only three or four were bound volumes. I
arranged the whole so as to make eight volumes; copying about three
hundred pages, which would not conform in size. These have been bound
in Russia leather, with spring backs, and make a handsome array of
folios, containing 3,813 pages. The Council and Assembly Records,
beginning 1699 and ending 1774, in five volumes, large folio, and
containing 2,260 pages, next were arranged, and are now ready for the
binder. The Council records are imperfect, and it will be necessary to
copy much from the files before they are ready to bind. Besides these,
I have collected the speeches and messages of the Provincial Governors,
from 1699 to 1775, arranged them in chronological order, and have had
them bound in three handsome volumes of about 1,500 pages. I will not
mention the amount of papers in files which I have been over, new
folded, and labelled."

Governor Hill, in his annual message to the Legislature, in June,
1837, says: "Under the resolution of the last session, John Farmer,
Esq., has for several weeks been engaged in arranging for binding and
preservation the shattered records and public papers in the archives of
this State. Perhaps a century may occur before another person with his
peculiar tact and talent shall appear to undertake this work. Although
of extremely feeble health, there is not probably any other person in
the State, who can readily perform so much--none so well versed in its
history, and who has like him traced from the root upwards, the rise
and progress of government in the land of the Pilgrims, and the origin
and spread of every considerable family name in New England."

And in his message of June, 1838, Governor Hill thus speaks: "In my
last annual communication to the Legislature, the progress made in the
examination and arrangement of our public archives, by John Farmer,
Esq., was mentioned. Since that time, with a method and perseverance
deserving high praise, Mr. Farmer has prosecuted his labors, until the
appropriation then made has been exhausted, and a small additional
expense incurred. Twenty-three volumes have been bound in a neat
and substantial manner. Among these volumes, is one containing the
Associated Test Returns, which has the original signatures of 8,199
citizens of this State, above the age of twenty-one years, who
'solemnly engaged and promised that they would to the utmost of their
power, at the risk of their lives and fortunes, with arms, oppose
the hostile proceedings of the British fleets and armies against the
United American Colonies.' This pledge, it should be remembered,
preceded the Declaration of Independence several months. It was,
therefore, in the language of a note prefixed by Mr. Farmer, to this
volume, 'a bold and hazardous step, in subjects, thus to resist the
authority of one of the most powerful sovereigns in the world. Had
the cause in which these men pledged their lives and fortunes failed,
it would have subjected every individual who signed it, to the pains
and penalties of treason; to a cruel and ignominious death.' In my
opinion, the cost to the State of this enterprise, by the man of all
others best qualified for such an undertaking, bears no comparison to
its importance: it is hoped the Legislature will direct Mr. Farmer
to persevere until he completes the work. Let every fragment of our
history be preserved; let us suffer nothing to be lost."

The Legislature wisely responded to the suggestions of the Governor.
Mr. Farmer was continued in the work; and his life was prolonged until
he had accomplished the most difficult portion of the task confided to
him.

We know that Mr. Farmer placed an humble estimate upon his labors. He
well understood the general indifference of the public to pursuits
of this nature. The direction of the living and moving crowd is
onward; and he who busies himself in gathering up the memorials of
the past, will be left behind,--himself and his labors too generally
unrewarded and forgotten. Mr. Farmer has done perhaps more than
any other individual in collecting and preserving the materials
for our local history, and establishing accuracy in its details.
He investigated faithfully, took nothing upon trust, and rested on
reasonable conclusions only where absolute certainty could not be
attained. Many have expressed surprise that Mr. Farmer could have been
so indefatigable and painstaking in his pursuits. But the fondness for
these investigations grows with indulgence. Success in establishing an
old fact is a triumph over time. Facts established are the warp and
woof of history; and the diligent antiquary thus gives to history its
main materials, veracity and fidelity, when enlightened philosophy
steps in and completes the work.

We have already mentioned, that Mr. Farmer was one of the three
or four gentlemen only in New Hampshire, who have been elected
Corresponding Members of the Massachusetts Historical Society. He was
also a Corresponding Member of the Rhode Island and Maine Historical
Societies, and of the American Antiquarian Society. He was also
elected in August, 1837, a member of the Royal Society of Northern
Antiquaries at Copenhagen.

There was scarcely a lovelier or more prominent trait in Mr. Farmer's
character, than the ever fresh and affectionate interest which he took
in the intellectual improvement and moral culture of the young. Having
no family of his own to engage his kind and generous affections, a
chief source of happiness to him seemed to be, to act the part of a
father and teacher to all the youth who were about him. He encouraged
lyceums and literary associations for mental improvement; often
heard recitations in private; examined compositions written at his
own suggestion; and directed the studies of such as applied to him.
And such was his suavity of manners, his instructive conversation,
and inexhaustible store of historical anecdote, that he scarcely
ever failed to inspire his pupils and intimate acquaintances with a
portion of his taste for literary and historical pursuits. Those who
knew him respected him. Those who knew him intimately and were his
friends, loved him. He was no dogmatist; never a violent partisan,
although decided in his opinions, on whatever subject he expressed
them. He possessed native delicacy and refinement of character. No
harsh expressions fell from his lips or proceeded from his pen. He was
nevertheless quick and sensitive to the distinctions between right
and wrong, and steadily threw his influence into the scale of truth.
His was a gentle spirit, seeking quiet and affection, like Cowper's,
though without his vein of melancholy; and, though instinctively
shrinking from vice, he was not disposed harshly to visit the offender.
He had zeal, but it was the zeal of a catholic spirit, and of kind
affections--the spirit of the Christian and gentleman, which respected
the feelings of others, in whatever situation or circumstances of life.

All who were acquainted with Mr. Farmer, will respond to the
affectionate and just tribute, which fell from the lips of the Rev.
Mr. Bouton, on the occasion of his funeral: "We believe our departed
friend and fellow-citizen possessed the spirit of a Christian. Owing to
bodily weakness and infirmities, he could not attend public worship on
the Sabbath, or be present at any public meeting. But we know he was a
firm believer in the doctrines of Christianity; a regular contributor
to the support of divine worship; an intelligent and frequent reader
of the Holy Scriptures; and that he ever cherished and manifested
the profoundest reverence for the institutions and ordinances of
religion, and particularly a respect for Christian ministers of every
denomination, whose conduct became their profession. His spirit and
views were eminently catholic. He loved the good of every name, and
cheerfully united with them in all approved efforts and measures for
the advancement of truth and righteousness." He annually contributed
to the Bible, Missionary, and other Charitable Societies; and no man
living, perhaps, felt a deeper interest in the success of the great
enterprises of Christian benevolence, than did Mr. Farmer.

His last sickness was short. Few of his friends were aware of his
danger, till it was evident that he could not long survive. Many
gladly offered their services to wait upon him, and watch around his
dying-bed; but the privilege of this was reserved to a few early-chosen
friends. He wanted to be still and tranquil. To a dear friend, who
stood by him, to watch every motion and meet every wish, he expressed
peace of mind, and consolation in the hope of eternal life through
Jesus Christ. On the evening of the Sabbath before his decease, he
desired the same friend to sing to him a favorite hymn, which she did.
His reason remained unclouded to the last, and he gently fell asleep in
death, at a few minutes past 6 o'clock, on Monday morning, the 13th of
August, 1838, in the 49th year of his age.

Upon the plain white marble stone, marking the place where the mortal
remains of Mr. Farmer lie, is the following inscription:

     "John Farmer, born at Chelmsford, Mass., 22 June, 1789; Died
             in this town, 13 August, 1838; Æt. 49 years.
                           Honored as a man;
             Distinguished as an Antiquarian and Scholar;
                         Beloved as a friend;
              And revered as a Christian Philanthropist;
                   And a lover of impartial liberty;
              His death has occasioned a void in Society,
                    Which time will fail to supply;
                 And the reason and fitness of which,
          As to time and manner, and attendant circumstances,
                   Eternity alone can fully unfold."

FOOTNOTES:

[1] Considering the character which the Register is to sustain, we have
supposed that this number of the Work could commence with no article
more interesting, than a Biographical Notice of Mr. Farmer. The Notice
is principally an Abstract from a Memoir of him prepared by Jacob B.
Moore, Esq., now residing at Washington, D. C.

[2] We purposely omit a further notice of Mr. Farmer's ancestors, as a
full account will appear in the genealogy of the Farmer Family, which
he prepared and published, some years before his death. Having been
remodelled and improved, it is inserted in this number of the Register.

[3] These Memoirs of graduates at Harvard and Dartmouth Colleges were,
agreeably to the desire of Mr. Farmer, placed in the hands of the Rev.
Dr. Cogswell of Boston, for his disposal.




GENEALOGICAL MEMOIR OF THE FARMER FAMILY.

                 Remodelled and Prepared on a New Plan.

                       BY SAMUEL G. DRAKE, M. A.

    [As one of this name has very justly been styled "The Father of
    Genealogy in New England," and has left behind him an enduring
    monument of his labors in this department of literature, it is
    deemed highly proper to commence our Genealogical Series with
    that of his family. It will be viewed, we doubt not, with great
    interest, by all lovers of such subjects, and more especially
    as the Memoir is from his own pen; that is to say, as to facts,
    it is entirely the same as that, which was published by the
    distinguished Genealogist himself; but the plan of it here
    presented, is new, and is probably preferable to any other
    hitherto adopted. Indeed there does not appear to have been
    any general fixed plan for the exhibition of Genealogies. The
    following method, the result of much reflection, is now offered
    for the consideration of those who may engage in preparing
    Genealogical Memoirs. ED.]

                      _Explanation of the Plan._

As the plan laid down may not be apparent at first view, the following
explanation may be deemed necessary. The Arabic numbers running
through the whole Genealogy, are to show not only the number of every
individual descended from the same ancestor, but by the aid of them,
the connection of every person is seen at a glance, and the ancestors
or descendants may be traced, backward or forward, with the greatest
ease and facility. One number set under another, or two numbers set
against the same individual, show, in all cases, that such individual
has descendants, and the lower number indicates the place in the series
where the descendants are to be found; remembering that the Roman
numerals are only employed to show the number of children belonging
to the same particular family. For example, (18)/(59) VIII. OLIVER,³
shows, that this person is No. 18 in the regular Arabic series, and
that following (59), onward, his family will be found; the VIII is
sufficiently obvious. The ³ at the end of the name, denotes the
individual to be of the 3rd generation from the first in the series,
and so of all other numbers in a similar situation; i. e., all those
placed like an exponent at the end of names, show the generation. All
names of persons having descendants, are necessarily repeated, in their
order, but are not renumbered. Thus JOHN³ (10) is repeated after 18,
the (10) showing his original place in the series.

From what is said above it is thought the plan will be perfectly
apparent on the most cursory perusal. The names of persons descended
in the female line are printed in the ordinary Roman letter, to
distinguish them from those of the male line, always printed in small
capitals.

By this system of deducing or displaying descents, any corrections or
additions may be made without disfiguring the appearance of the work,
as for instance, (63) IV. SARAH,⁴ whose family is indicated to be given
at (126); it will appear that other individuals were found belonging to
her family after the work was made up, therefore a new entry is made of
her at (164), and yet all is perfectly clear.

Although it is highly desirable, that individuals and families should
succeed each other in the regular order of their generations, it is not
always possible to make a genealogical memoir so; for it is apparent
that in numerous instances, especially among the early families, we
are obliged to pass over individuals, not knowing whether they had
descendants; and when a long memoir is made up it is often found that
many so passed over, had children. These therefore cannot have their
proper place in the memoir without great labor, requiring a new draft
of nearly the whole work. By the plan now presented we avoid the
difficulty, in its most objectionable feature, by placing all such at
the end of the memoir whenever we find them, with the same numerical
references, &c., as employed throughout. Thus, in the following
genealogy we have several placed in this manner for illustration; as
for example, (110) III. CHARLOTTE⁶ falls into the series, with her
descendants at (174), while (83) I. EDWARD⁵ does not fall in till
(176), and so of a few others.

In preparing this memoir the reader must remember, that the author
published it in 1828, and hence, that the present tense often used by
him, has reference to the date of publication. We make this note to
avoid too frequent interpolations in brackets. Mr. Farmer had printed
in 1813, sundry Family Records of different branches of the family,
and in 1824, he issued an Appendix to it. This with the other part
made about 30 pages in 18mo. These contained a good deal not found
in his last work. All three are here incorporated into a regular and
continuous genealogy. The copies of the first two printed works which
I have used, have many manuscript additions and corrections in the
author's own hand. The title-page of the Memoir runs thus:

       *       *       *       *       *

    A GENEALOGICAL MEMOIR OF THE FAMILY BY THE NAME OF FARMER, WHO
  SETTLED AT BILLERICA, Ms. HINGHAM, FARMER & BROWN, PRINTERS, 1828.

    [The following Dedication is upon the back of the title-page.]

  To JEDIDIAH FARMER, The following Memoir of our Ancestors,
    collected from various authentic sources, and with considerable
    enquiry and investigation, is offered to you as a token of
    fraternal regard and affection, by your affectionate brother,

                                                    JOHN FARMER.
  Concord, N. H., January 28, 1828.



MEMOIR.

The surname of FARMER is one of considerable antiquity, and is one of
those names derived from occupations or professions, which, next to
local names, or those derived from the names of places, are the most
numerous.[4] It comes from the Saxon term _Fearme_ or _Feorme_, which
signifies food or provision.[5] But some think it derived from _Firma_,
which signifies a place enclosed or shut in; and some contend for its
French etymology from the word _Ferme_.

The FARMERS, so far as my researches will enable me to conjecture, were
of Saxon origin, and, in the reign of Edward IV., King of England, were
seated in Northamptonshire, where they remain to the present day. They
resided at Easton-Neston about 1480. Anne, the daughter of Richard
Farmer, Esq., of that place, married, before 1545, William Lucy, and
their son, Sir Thomas Lucy of Charlecote, knighted by Queen Elizabeth,
in 1565, was the knight and magistrate whose name is associated with
some of the early events of the life of Shakspeare. William Farmer,
created Lord Leinster in 1692, the ancestor of the present earl of
Pomfret, resided at Easton-Neston. Jasper Farmer, one of this family,
is said to be the ancestor of the Farmers in the State of Pennsylvania.

From Northamptonshire they seem to have spread over several of the
contiguous counties before the middle of the sixteenth century; being
found in Leicestershire as early as 1490, in Warwickshire in 1545, and
in Shropshire at nearly the same period.

Sir William Dugdale, in his Antiquities of Warwickshire, mentions
Richard Farmer and his wife, and John their son, and Maud his wife,
to whom, and the heirs male of the said John, the place or parish
of Merston-Boteler in that county, was granted by the King's Letters
Patent, dated November 23, 1545. He also names Rev. Thomas Farmer,
minister of the parish of Austrey in 1542, and Rev. John Farmer,
incumbent of the church in Bagington, 1552, and Rev. Richard, of the
parish of Ashowe.

R. Farmer, Esq., of Kennington Common, near London, informs me,[6] that
his ancestors as far back as he had been able to trace them, belonged
to Oldbury, near Bridgenorth, in Shropshire, and that their names were
Edward. Thomas Farmer, Esq., one of the Managers of the British and
Foreign Bible Society, is of this family. Rev. Hugh Farmer, the learned
author of the Dissertation on Miracles, and other theological works,
was of Shropshire, and was born at a place called Isle Gate, belonging
to a small hamlet almost surrounded by the river Severn, a few miles
from Shrewsbury.[7]

The branch of the family traced in the following pages was formerly
seated in Leicestershire, on the borders of Warwickshire; and, about
1500, were living in the village of Ratcliffe-Cuiley, near Witherly.
Of those who resided there at that period, I am unable to speak with
any degree of certainty, having the advantage of no records, or family
memorials. The late Rev. Richard Farmer, D. D., of Cambridge, England,
made some collections of a genealogical nature, and from these it would
seem, that the most remote ancestor, whom he had traced, was EDWARD,
who is mentioned by Anthony Wood in his Athenæ Oxonienses, and in his
Fasti Oxonienses, as being the Chancellor of the Cathedral church in
Salisbury, in 1531; which office he sustained until his death in 1538.

JOHN FARMER is the next ancestor of whom I have any account, and of
whom I have nothing more than the fact found among Rev. Dr. Farmer's
MSS., that he was living at Ansley in Warwickshire in 1604. Between him
and Edward of Salisbury, there were probably two or three generations,
whose names cannot be given with much confidence, although it is
presumed from Guillim's Heraldry, that the name of one was Bartholomew.

There has been a considerable number of the name in England, and
several of them of the Warwickshire branch of the family, who have been
employed in public life, or have been known by their writings. The
following list of them has been collected from various sources:

ANTHONY, who was appointed in 1687, by James II., President of Magdalen
College; but, being a papist, and there being other objections against
his character, he was superseded by Bishop Parker.[8]

EDWARD. "In the year 1529, in the beginning of February, Edward Lee
became Chancellor of the church of Salisbury by the resignation of
Thomas Winter, and was succeeded in that dignity by EDWARD FARMER, in
December, 1531."[9]

GEORGE, Esq., who was Prothonotary of the Court of Common Pleas in
1663.[10]

HATTON, who was Major of Prince Charles' regiment, and was killed by
Culham Bridge, near Abingdon, Jan. 11, 1645.[11]

HUGH, already mentioned, who was born 1714, died 1787, a. 73. Memoirs
of his Life and Writings were published in 1805, by Michael Dodson,
Esq., London, in an octavo volume of 160 pages.

JACOB, who published a "True Relation of the State of Ireland," London,
1642, octavo.

JAMES, who was minister of Leire, in Leicestershire, and was ejected in
1660.[12]

JOHN, who was a madrigaler, and who published a work noticed by Dr.
Rees, issued in 1591, London, octavo.

JOHN, Esq., who was Governor of the island of Barbadoes.[13]

JOHN, who was a clergyman, and published twenty sermons. London, 1744,
octavo.

JOHN, who published the "History of the Town and Abbey of Waltham in
Essex, England." London, 1735, octavo.

JOHN, who was a surgeon, and published "Select Cases in Surgery,
collected in St. Bartholomew's Hospital." 1757, in quarto.

PRISCILLA, whose Life was published in 1796, by her grandson, Charles
Lloyd.[14]

RICHARD, who was a Baptist minister, and who is noticed by Neal in his
History of the Puritans.

RICHARD, who published a sermon on Luke xxi: 34. London, 1629, quarto.

RICHARD, D. D., who published "An Essay on the Learning of Shakspeare."
London, 1766.

RALPH, who was minister of St. Nicholas in Somersetshire, and was
ejected in 1660. He published the "Mysteries of Godliness and
Ungodliness, discovered from the writings of the Quakers." London,
1655, quarto.[15]

S----, Esq., who was a member of Parliament, 1818.[16]

THOMAS, who was born August 20, 1771, nephew of Dr. Richard, Rector of
Aspley-Guise in Bedfordshire.

THOMAS, who was a printer, and published a work called "Plain Truth,
&c." London, 1763, quarto.

WILLIAM, who wrote an Almanac for Ireland, printed at Dublin, 1587,
supposed to have been the first printed in that country.[17]

WILLIAM, of Magdalen College, who was a Baronet, and was created Master
of Arts in 1667.[18]

       *       *       *       *       *

[Thus far we have but the links of a broken chain, which must
necessarily be the results usually of attempts of this nature. What
follows is without any lost link between those named and a common
ancestor.]

       *       *       *       *       *

  (1) JOHN,¹ of Ansley, who m. Isabella Barbage of Great Packington,
            in Warwickshire, is the first ancestor of whom I have
            the means of giving any account, supported by original
            documents and family memorials in my possession. Ansley,
            the place of his residence, is a small village in the
            northerly part of the county of Warwick, situated about
            ten miles from the city of Coventry, four from Atherstone,
            which borders on Leicestershire, and five from Nuneaton,
            a considerable market town, and has a population of 541.
            In this place, and near Ansley Hall,[19] the seat of the
            Ludfords, he owned houses and lands, which passed to his
            posterity through several generations, and may still be
            owned by his descendants. Of his family I have procured
            some facts, which will be given. He died before the year
            1669, and Isabella, his widow, came with some of her
            children to New England, a few years after this period, and
            m. Elder Thomas Wiswall of Cambridge Village, now Newton,
            who d. Dec. 6, 1683. She d. at Billerica, May 21, 1686, at
            an advanced age.

  The children of this John Farmer were,

  (2) I. JOHN² of Ansley, who had the paternal estate. He d. before
  (9) 1700, and his widow m. Richard Lucas of Ansley.

  (3) II. MARY,² who m. William Pollard of the city of
            Coventry, and d. before 1701. Their eldest son, Thomas,
            came to New England, m. Sarah Farmer, his cousin, settled
            in Billerica, d. April 4, 1724, leaving 10 sons.

  (4) III. EDWARD,² who was b. about 1640, (probably the second son,)
  (10)     m. Mary ----, who was b. about 1641. He came to New
            England between 1670 and 1673,[20] fixed his residence at
            Billerica, and was admitted to town rights and privileges
            in that place, Jan. 11, 1673. He afterwards lived a year or
            two at Woburn, and one of his children was born there. In
            Billerica he was chosen to several of the most important
            town offices, and was employed in public service, until
            he was quite advanced in life. He had 8 children, 4 sons
            and 4 daughters. To his youngest son, Oliver, he gave the
            farm on which he resided, which is still in possession
            of one of his descendants. On this farm have resided 6
            successive generations, in the space of 154 years. He
            died at Billerica, May 27, 1727, a. about 87. Mary his
            wife d. March 26, 1716, a. 77. The male descendants of
            Edward Farmer, of the patronymic name, have nearly all
            been agriculturists, and no one among them has attained
            any considerable civil or literary distinction. In the
            female line of descent there have been several of liberal
            education, and others who have been honored with civil
            office.

            The house of EDWARD FARMER, (which stood until after
            1728,) was fortified as a garrison for a number of years.
            While occupied as such, the following incident occurred,
            which has been handed down by tradition in the family.
            During the Ten Years' Indian War, and probably about the
            year 1692, when the first depredations were committed in
            the town of Billerica, the Indians meditated an attack
            on this garrison. For some days they had been lurking in
            the neighborhood of it without being discovered. Early in
            the forenoon of a summer's day, the wife and daughter of
            Edward Farmer went into the field to gather peas or beans
            for dinner, being attended by several of her sons, who
            were young lads, as a guard to protect them. They had been
            out but a short time before Mrs. Farmer discovered that a
            number of Indians were concealed behind the fences, and
            so near that she could almost reach them. Had she given
            any alarm, they would probably have rushed from their
            lurking-places, seized the party and fled; although their
            object was to get possession of the garrison, which offered
            more plunder and a greater number of captives. But with
            admirable presence of mind, and without making known the
            discovery she had made, to her sons, who might, with more
            temerity than prudence, have attacked the Indians, she
            said, in a loud tone of voice, "Boys, guard us well to the
            garrison, and then you may come back and hunt Indians." The
            Indians, supposing they were not discovered, remained in
            their hiding-places, while the other party soon left the
            field for the garrison, which they reached in safety. Then
            the alarm was given, the people collected, and the Indians
            fled with precipitation. After the return of peace, the
            Indians declared, that had it not been for that "one white
            squaw," they should have effected their purpose.

  (5) IV. ISABELLA,² who came to New England.

  (6) V. ELIZABETH,² who m. a Mr. ---- White, and visited New
            England ab. 1681.

  (7) VI. THOMAS,² who came to New England, and was living in
            Billerica in 1675 and 1684. He afterwards returned to
            England, or removed elsewhere.

  (8) VII. ANN.²

  (9) VIII. ----, who m. John Hall, of Warwickshire.

  John² (2) of Ansley had,
  (10) I. JOHN,³ b. ----, who m. Sarah Daws of Tamworth, and lived
  (18) at Nuneaton, England.

  EDWARD²
  (4) had by his wife Mary,
  (11) I. SARAH,³ who was b. ab. 1669, and m. Thomas Pollard, Nov.,
  (19) 1692, who was son of William Pollard of Coventry,
            England, and had issue 10 sons and 5 daughters. Thomas
            Pollard d. at Billerica, Ms. April 4, 1724. She d. May 3,
            1725.

  (12) II. JOHN,³ who was b. Aug. 19, 1671, and m. Abigail ----. He
  (34) resided in Billerica, where he d. Sept. 9, 1736, a.
            65. She d. at Tewksbury, Ms., March 20, 1754, a. 75.

  (13) III. EDWARD,³ who was b. March 22, 1674, and m. Mary, dau.
  (42) of Thomas Richardson, who was b. Feb. 17, 1673, d.
            May 15, 1746, a. 73. He lived in Billerica, where he d.
            Dec. 17, 1752, a. 78.

  (14) IV. MARY,³ who was b. Nov. 3, 1675, and m. ---- Dean, and
            had a number of children.

  (15) V. BARBARY,³ who was b. at Woburn, Jan. 26, 1677, and d. at
            Billerica, Feb. 1, 1681, a. 4 years.

  (16) VI. ELIZABETH,³ who was b. May 17, 1680, and m. William
  (45) Green of Malden, May 29, 1707. She d. Dec. 26, 1761,
            a. 82. He d. May 19, 1761, a. 87, both at Reading, Ms.

  (17) VII. THOMAS,³ who was b. June 8, 1683, and m. Sarah Hunt.
  (50) They both d. at Hollis, N. H., about 1767, a. ab. 84
            years each, and were both buried in the same grave.

  (18) VIII. OLIVER,³ who was b. Feb. 2, 1686, and m. Abigail, dau. of
  (59) Ebenezer Johnson of Woburn, where she was b., June
            13, 1697. Her father was son of Hon. William Johnson,
            for many years Representative to the General Court from
            Woburn; elected in 1684, an Assistant under the old colony
            charter of Massachusetts, and who d. May 22, 1704. William
            was son of Capt. EDWARD JOHNSON, the author of the well
            known History of New England, printed at London, 1654, in
            small quarto, commonly called "Wonder-working Providence."
            He came in 1630, from Herne Hill, a parish in Kent, in
            England, and settled at Woburn, Ms., which he represented
            in the General Court twenty-eight years in succession, from
            1643 to 1671, except in the year 1648, and was once Speaker
            of the House of Representatives. He d. April 23, 1672,
            leaving 5 sons and 2 daughters.

  Oliver Farmer, from whom we have digressed, resided on the
            paternal farm in Billerica, where he d., Feb. 23, 1761, a.
            75. His widow m. 2ndly, Capt. James Lane, of Bedford, Ms.,
            and d. there, Feb. 25, 1773, a. 75.

  JOHN,³ (10) who m. Sarah Daws, had
  (19) I. RICHARD,⁴ who was bapt. Sept. 15, 1698, and m. Hannah
  (69) Knibb of Brinklow, Jan. 4, 1733.

  SARAH,³ (11) who m. Thomas Pollard, had,
  (20) I. Mary,

  (21) II. Edward,

  (22) III. Barbary,

  (23) IV. Thomas,

  (24) V. William,

  (25) VI. John,

  (26) VII. Sarah,

  (27) VIII. Joseph,

  (28) IX. Oliver,

  (29) X. Sarah 2nd,

  (30) XI. Nathaniel,

  (31) XII. James,

  (32) XIII. Walter,

  (33) XIV. Elizabeth,

  (34) XV. Benjamin, (nearly all of whom married and had families.)

  JOHN,³ (12) who m. Abigail ----, had, (35) I. DOROTHY,⁴

  (36) II. BARBARY,⁴

  (37) III. JOHN,⁴

  (38) IV. DANIEL,⁴

  (39) V. RICHARD,⁴

  (40) VI. EDWARD,⁴

  (41) VII. JACOB,⁴

  (42) VIII. WILLIAM.⁴

  EDWARD,³ (13) who m. Mary Richardson, had, (43) I. MARY,⁴

  (44) II. ANDREW,⁴ b. March 27, 1709.

  (45) III. ELIZABETH.⁴

  ELIZABETH,³ (16) who m. William Green of Malden, had,
  (46) I. Elizabeth,⁴
  (47) II. Eunice,⁴
  (48) III. William,⁴
  (49) IV. William 2nd,⁴
  (50) V. Nathan.⁴

  THOMAS,³ (17) who m. Sarah Hunt, had,
  (51) I. THOMAS,⁴
  (52) II. JOSEPH,⁴
  (53) III. JOSEPH 2nd,⁴
  (54) IV. SUSANNA,⁴
  (55) V. JOSIAH,⁴
  (56) VI. ELIZABETH,⁴
  (57) VII. JOSHUA,⁴
  (58) VIII. SAMUEL,⁴
  (59) IX. BENJAMIN.⁴

  OLIVER,³ (18) who m. Abigail Johnson, had,
  (60) I. ABIGAIL,⁴ b. Dec. 22, 1717, d. Jan. 11, 1718.

  (61) II. ABIGAIL 2nd,⁴ b. Jan. 14, 1719, m. Jonathan Richardson of
  (112) Billerica, Feb. 14, 1740. He was b. Feb. 7, 1716, d.
            March 14, 1791, a. 75. She d. Jan. 13, 1790, a. 71. They
            had 6 children.

  (62) III. MARY,⁴ b. Aug. 26, 1721, m. William Baldwin of Billerica,
  (118) Sept. 23, 1741. He was b. Sept. 15, 1710, d. Dec
            21, 1762, a. 52. She d. Sept. 25, 1803, a. 72. They had 8
            children.

  (63) IV. SARAH,⁴ b. Dec. 14, 1723, m. Edward Jewett of Rowley,
  (126) 1741, d. at Berlin, Ms., Dec. 8, 1819, a. 96. He was
            b. Aug. 11, 1714, d. Dec. 20, 1790, a. 77. They had 10
            children.

  (64) V. BETTY,⁴ b. May 31, 1726, m. Zebadiah Rogers of Billerica,
  (134) April 11, 1751, d. Sept. 17, 1805, a. 80. He was b.
            Feb. 23, 1721, d. June 25, 1803, a. 82. They had 7 children.

  (65) VI. REBECCA,⁴ (a twin) b. May 31, 1726, m. Samuel Rogers of
  (141) Billerica, April 18, 1751, d. Aug. 30, 1809. He was
            brother of Zebadiah just named, and was b. Feb. 2, 1723, d.
            April 21, 1788, a. 66. They had 7 children.

  (66) VII. OLIVER,⁴ b. July 31, 1728, m. Rachel, dau. of John Shed of
  (76) Pepperell, Ms., April 5, 1757. She was b. Jan. 29,
            1733, d. Sept. 23, 1764, a. 31. He m. 2dly, July 3, 1766,
            Hannah, dau. of Jeremiah Abbot, b. Oct. 10, 1735, d. Sept.
            13, 1819, a. 84. He d. on the paternal farm, Feb. 24, 1814,
            a. 85.

  (67) VIII. ISABELLA,⁴ b. March 2, 1731, m. Benjamin Warren of
  (148) Chelmsford, Jan. 10, 1754, d. Dec. 26, 1793, a. 63.
            He d. at Hollis, N. H., Aug. 20, 1800, a. 71. They had 6
            children.

  (68) IX. EDWARD,⁴ ESQ., b. Feb. 24, 1734, m. Sarah, dau. of Samuel
  (82) Brown, d. Aug. 4, 1804, a. 70. She was b. Feb.
            20, 1736, d. Aug. 19, 1811, a. 75.

            The following obituary notice of this gentleman appeared
            in the Boston Repertory of Aug. 10, 1804. "Died at
            Billerica, on the 4th inst., in the 71st year of his age,
            EDWARD FARMER, Esq., who many years represented that town
            in the General Court. He ever combatted the enemies to
            the Laws and Constitution of his Country, both foreign
            and domestic. He was a firm patriot in our Revolutionary
            war, and commanded a party of militia at the capture of
            Burgoyne, and cheerfully obeyed the call of Government, in
            the insurrection of 1786. On the 6th his body was carried
            to the meeting-house, preceded by a volunteer company
            completely uniformed, and followed by a long train of the
            citizens of Billerica and the towns adjacent. Appropriate
            hymns were sung, a suitable lesson was read from the
            scriptures, and after a well adapted prayer by the Rev. Dr.
            Cumings, his remains, as attended above, were escorted to
            the mansions of the dead, and deposited with his fathers,
            with military honors. He left a numerous family to bemoan
            his loss."

  (69) X. JOHN,⁴ Lieut., b. Dec. 7, 1737, m. 1st, June 5, 1764, Hannah
  (87) Davis, b. Sept. 7, 1741; 2ndly, widow Sarah Adams,
            originally Russell, b. Jan. 18, 1751. His first wife d.
            Feb. 12, 1787, a. 45. He d. at Billerica, Jan. 9, 1806, in
            his 70th year.

  RICHARD,⁴ (19) who m. Hannah Knibb, had,
  (70) I. RICHARD,⁵ Master of Emmanuel College, Cambridge, b.
            May 4, 1735, d. Sept. 8, 1797, a. 62.

  (71) II. JOHN,⁵ in holy orders.

  (72) III. THOMAS,⁵ b. May 10, 1744, d. at Leicester, England,
            1824, a. 80.

  (73) IV. JOSEPH,⁵ of Leicester, a Lieut. Colonel.

  (74) V. HANNAH,⁵

  (75) VI. SARAH,⁵

  (76) VII. MARY,⁵ who m. Rev. and Hon. Richard Byron, at one time
            heir apparent to the baronial honors of the Byron family.

  OLIVER,⁴ (66) who m. 1st, Rachel Shed, had,
  (77) I. RACHEL,⁵ b. April 29, 1758, m. Nicholas French, Sept. 28,
  (95) 1779. He d. at Merrimack, July 21, 1823, a. 73.

  (78) II. OLIVER,⁵ b. June 12, 1760, m. Hannah Sprague, Nov. 30,
            (101) 1786. She was b. March 14, 1764.

  (79) III. JOHN,⁵ b. Dec 1, 1762, m. Lydia, dau. of Josiah
            Richardson[21] of
  (107) Chelmsford, Jan. 24, 1788. She was b. Dec. 7, 1763.
            He was a deacon, and resided in Chelmsford, (where all
            of his children were born) until Sept, 1803, when he
            removed to Lyndeborough, N. H., where he remained until
            Nov. 18, 1806, at which time he removed to Merrimack, and
            died there, Nov. 17, 1814, a. 52. By his 2nd wife, Hannah
            Abbott, he had,

  (80) IV. HANNAH,⁵ b. Sept. 17, 1767, m. William Rogers of Billerica,
  (154) (her cousin) Dec. 10, 1789. She was b. May 25, 1759.

  (81) V. REBECCA,⁵ b. Nov. 29, 1768, d. Jan. 8, 1792, a. 23. A
            poem on her death was written by Dr. Timothy Danforth of
            Billerica.

  (82) VI. JEREMIAH,⁵ b. April 10, 1771, m. Clarissa, dau. of Timothy
  (172) Foster, Oct. 13, 1816. She was b. April 16, 1785.

  EDWARD,⁴ (68) who m. Sarah Brown, had,

  (83) I. EDWARD,⁵ b. Dec 1, 1760, d. Aug. 23, 1802. He m. Rizpah
  (176) Baldwin, March 25, 1784. She d. July 29, 1791. He m.
            2ndly, Elizabeth Brown, of Concord.

  (84) II. SARAH,⁵ b. March 6, 1763, d. Jan. 28, 1766.

  (85) III. JONATHAN,⁵ b. May 28, 1764, d. Oct. 11, 1798.

  (86) IV. SARAH,⁵ b. Oct. 3, 1767, m. Reuben Baldwin, Nov. 13,
            1787. He was drowned, May 13, 1807, leaving 8 children.

  (87) V. JESSE,⁵ b. Oct. 18, 1770, d. in Boston, Feb. 6, 1815, a. 44.
  (181) He m. Margaret Franksford, July 26, 1803. She was b.
            Aug. 26, 1781.

  JOHN,⁴ (69) who m. 1st, Hannah Davis, had,
  (88) I. HANNAH,⁵ b. Sept. 26, 1764.

  (89) II. REBECCA,⁵ b. Dec. 2, 1766, d. May 29, 1788.

  (90) III. ABIGAIL,⁵ b. Dec 22, 1768.

  (91) IV. POLLY,⁵ b. Jan. 14, 1775.

  (92) V. JOHN,⁵ b. Dec 4, 1776, d. Sept. 1, 1778.

  (93) VI. LUCY,⁵ b. Oct. 4, 1780. By his 2nd wife, (Mrs. Adams,)
            he had,

  (94) VII. JOHN,⁵ b. Dec 11, 1791, m. Susan, dau. of Deacon Moses
            Gerrish, and resided [in 1824] in Boscawen, and was Lieut.
            Colonel of the 21st regiment of N. H. militia.

  (95) VIII. HANNAH,⁵ b. Dec. 15, 1794, m., and lived in Boscawen,
            in 1824.

  RACHEL,⁵ (77) who m. Nicholas French, had,
  (96) I. Oliver Farmer,⁶ b. Jan. 1, 1780, d. July 25, 1803,
            a. 23.

  (97) II. John,⁶ b. May 27, 1783.

  (98) III. Nicholas,⁶ b. Sept. 7, 1785.

  (99) IV. Rachel,⁶ b. Sept. 10, 1788, d. July 14, 1792.

  (100) V. Hannah,⁶ b. Aug. 4, 1791.

  (101) VI. Rachel 2nd,⁶ b. June 25, 1795.

  OLIVER,⁵ (78) who m. Hannah Sprague, had,
  (102) I. OLIVER,⁶ b. May 12, 1788.

  (103) II. ASA,⁶ b. Dec 13, 1793.

  (104) III. HANNAH,⁶ b. May 17, 1795.

  (105) IV. ZADOCK,⁶ b. Oct. 28, 1796.

  (106) V. REBECCA,⁶ b. March 30, 1798.

  (107) VI. RACHEL,⁶ b. Sept. 13, 1804.

  JOHN,⁵ (79) who m. Lydia Richardson, had,
  (108) I. JOHN,⁶ b. June 12, 1789, d. at Concord, N. H.,
            where he had long resided, Aug. 13, 1838, a. 49. [This was
            the eminent Genealogist and Antiquary, the original author
            of this Genealogical Memoir of the family, to whom all New
            England is so deeply indebted for his labors.]

  (109) II. MILES,⁶ b. Jan. 18, 1791, m. Sophia H., dau. of Major
  (188) Turner Crooker, July 4, 1816. She was of Amherst, N. H.

  (110) III. CHARLOTTE,⁶ b. July 20, 1792, m. Capt. James Riddle of
  (174) Merrimack, Aug. 3, 1815. She d. Aug. 6, 1825, a. 33,
            while on a visit at Quincy for her health, and was interred
            at Bedford, N. H.

  (111) IV. MARY,⁶ b. Aug. 31, 1794.

  (112) V. JEDIDIAH,⁶ b. April 5, 1802.

  ABIGAIL,⁴ (61) who m. Jonathan Richardson, had,
  (113) I. Abigail,⁵ b. April 14, 1741.

  (114) II. Jonathan,⁵ b. June 3, 1743, d. July 2, 1743.

  (115) III. Jonathan,⁵ b. Nov. 25, 1744.

  (116) IV. Thomas,⁵ b. Sept. 3, 1747.

  (117) V. Oliver,⁵ b. Feb. 15, 1750.

  (118) VI. Benjamin,⁵ b. March 3, 1753, d. Feb. 23, 1773.

  MARY,⁴ (62) who m. William Baldwin, had,
  (119) I. Sarah,⁵ b. July 5, 1742.

  (120) II. John,⁵ b. Jan. 13, 1744.

  (121) III. William,⁵ b. April 12, 1748.

  (122) IV. Thomas,⁵ b. Feb. 27, 1751, d. June 12, 1796.

  (123) V. Micah,⁵ b. Oct. 1, 1753.

  (124) VI. Mary,⁵ b. April 15, 1756.

  (125) VII. Nahum,⁵ b. May 16, 1759.

  (126) VIII. Oliver,⁵ b. Feb. 12, 1762.

  SARAH,⁴ (63) who m. Edward Jewett, had,
  (127) I. Edward,⁵ b. Nov. 29, 1741, lived in Rindge, N. H.

  (128) II. Sarah,⁵ b. May 29, 1744.

  (129) III. Oliver,⁵ b. March 24, 1747.

  (130) IV. John,⁵ b. Nov. 6, 1749, d. Feb., 1802.

  (131) V. Jesse,⁵ b. Nov. 17, 1752.

  (132) VI. Abigail,⁵ b. Oct. 11, 1755.

  (133) VII. Isabel,⁵ b. Sept. 29, 1758.

  (134) VIII. Joseph,⁵ b. May 10, 1761, m. Sarah Woods, sister of Rev.
  (166) Dr. Woods of Andover. He resided in Ashburnham, Ms.
            [See (164) onward.]

  BETTY,⁴ (64) who m. Zebadiah Rogers, had,
  (135) I. Betty,⁵ b. May 1, 1752.

  (136) II. Zebadiah,⁵ b. March 18, 1754.

  (137) III. John,⁵ b. Oct. 15, 1756.

  (138) IV. Josiah,⁵ b. April 28, 1759.

  (139) V. Lucy,⁵ b. April 21, 1761.

  (140) VI. Sybil,⁵ b. Nov. 4, 1763, d. Nov. 15, 1770.

  (141) VII. Micajah,⁵ b. Nov. 15, 1770.

  REBECCA,⁴ (65) who m. Samuel Rogers, had,
  (142) I. Rebecca,⁵ b. Feb. 11, 1752.

  (143) II. Samuel,⁵ b. March 5, 1754, died in Virginia, in the
            service of the U. States, Oct. 18, 1781.

  (144) III. Abigail,⁵ b. July 31, 1756.

  (145) IV. William,⁵ b. May 25, 1759.

  (146) V. Thomas,⁵ b. Aug. 12, 1762, d. May 1, 1804. a. 41.

  (147) VI. Rachel,⁵ b. May 23, 1765, m. Samuel Whiting, Esq., Jan.
  (193) 22, 1789.

  (148) VII. Ezra,⁵ b. May 9, 1768.

  ISABELLA,⁴ (67) who m. Benjamin Warren, had,
  (149) I. Isabella,⁵ b. Oct. 15, 1754.

  (150) II. Benjamin,⁵ b. March 12, 1758.

  (151) III. Tabitha,⁵ b. Jan. 2, 1763.

  (152) IV. Abigail,⁵ b. May 16, 1765.

  (153) V. Sarah,⁵ b. Sept. 28, 1767.

  (154) VI. Rebecca,⁵ b. Feb. 14, 1773.

  HANNAH,⁵ (80) who m. William Rogers of Billerica, had,
  (155) I. William,⁶ b. Dec. 23, 1790.

  (156) II. Jeremiah,⁶ b. Oct. 26, 1792.

  (157) III. Calvin,⁶ b. Aug. 30, 1794.

  (158) IV. Hannah,⁶ b. May 11, 1796.

  (159) V. Charles,⁶ b. May 25, 1798, d. May 28, 1799.

  (160) VI. Rebecca,⁶ b. May 18, 1800.

  (161) VII. Sukey,⁶ b. April 1, 1802.

  (162) VIII. Harriet,⁶ b. April 17, 1805.

  (163) IX. Louisa,⁶ b. Aug. 23, 1808.

  (164) X. Elvira,⁶ b. Aug. 5, 1810.

  SARAH,⁴ (63)--[In giving her children at
  (126) the following children were accidentally omitted.]
  (165) IX. Rachel,⁵ b. Jan. 8, 1765, d. Feb., 1766.

  (166) X. Josiah,⁵ b. April, 1767, d. Sept., 1775.

  Joseph Jewett,⁵ (134) son of Sarah
  (63) by Edward Jewett, had,
  (167) I. Ivers,⁶ of Ashburnham, now [1823] Major General of
            the 6th division of the Massachusetts militia.

  (168) II. Joseph,⁶ of Baltimore, Md.

  (169) III. Milton,⁶ who died in 1817.

  (170) IV. Polly G.,⁶ wife of Rev. Otis C. Whiton.

  (171) V. Merrick A.,⁶ grad. Dart. Coll. in 1823.

  (172) VI. Sarah Farmer,⁶ m. Aaron Hobart of Boston

  JEREMIAH,⁵ (82) who m. Clarissa Foster, had,
  (173) I. SARAH CLARISSA,⁶ b. Feb. 27, 1818.

  (174) II. TIMOTHY FOSTER,⁶ b. Aug. 10, 1824.

  CHARLOTTE,⁶ (110) who m. Capt. James Riddle, had,
  (175) I. Charlotte Margaret,⁷ b. Feb. 20, 1817.

  (176) II. Mary Ann Lincoln,⁷ b. ---- 1823.

  EDWARD,⁵ (83) who m. 1st, Rizpah Baldwin, had,
  (177) I. JOHN,⁶ b. July 27, 1786, d. March 6, 1808, a. 22,
            a worthy and promising young man.

  By his 2nd wife, Elizabeth Brown, he had,
  (178) II. ELIZABETH,⁶ b. June 20, 179-.

  (179) III. EDWARD,⁶ b. Sept. 26, 1795.

  (180) IV. RIZPAH,⁶ twin with Edward.

  (181) V. JACOB B.,⁶ b. Oct. 30, 1801.

  JESSE,⁵ (87) who m. Margaret Franksford, had,
  (182) I. MARGARET,⁶ b. Nov. 11, 1804.

  (183) II. HARRIET,⁶ b. Feb. 17, 1806.

  (184) III. HENRY,⁶ b. Aug. 17, 1807.

  (185) IV. JESSE,⁶ b. Nov. 9, 1809.

  (186) V. WILLIAM,⁶ b. Aug. 11, 1811.

  (187) VI. GEORGE WASHINGTON,⁶ b. Sept. 25, 1812.

  (188) VII. CATHARINE SMITH,⁶ b. Jan. 13, 1814.

  MILES,⁶ (109) who m. Sophia Crooker, had,
  (189) I. CHARLES AUGUSTUS,⁷ b. July 9, 1817, d. June 4, 1818.

  (190) II. SARAH,⁷ b. at Salem, Sept. 22, 1820.

  (191) III. MARY JANE,⁷ b. at Dover, Ms. Jan. 20, 1823.

  (192) IV. CAROLINE VALENTINE,⁷ b. at Dover, Feb. 4, 1825.

  (193) V. CHARLOTTE RIDDLE,⁷ b. at Boston.

  Rachel,⁵ (147) who m. Samuel Whiting, Esq., had,
  (194) I. Harriet,⁶ b. Oct. 20, 1789.

  (195) II. Ann,⁶ b. Oct. 20, 17--.

  (196) III. Catherine,⁶ twin with Ann.

  (197) IV. Augustus,⁶ b. March 2, 1795, grad. II. C. 1816.

  (198) V. Mary Ann,⁶ b. May 25, 1800.


APPENDIX.

_Extracts of Letters from_ Rev. Thomas Farmer, _Rector of Aspley-Guise,
in Bedfordshire, England_, _to_ John Farmer _of Concord, N. H._ Dated
July, 1822.

       *       *       *       *       *

DEAR SIR,--Having lately been to visit my relations at Leicester, my
native place, I saw for the first time a letter from you, desiring an
account of your Genealogy; and, being satisfied of our consanguinity,
you will allow me to hope that you may cross the Atlantic, and visit
this village, of which I am the Rector, and which is situated but
little more than 40 miles from London, and near the Duke of Bedford's
magnificent Park and Palace.

I am possessed of the papers which formerly belonged to my uncle,
Dr. Richard Farmer, who certainly was a most ingenious and classical
scholar, and perhaps the best annotator on England's immortal bard.
You may know that he was Master of Emmanuel College in the University
of Cambridge. There I was educated, and there I saw him die, after a
very long protracted illness, on the 8th of September, 1797. The loose
papers, from which I shall send you extracts, are in Dr. Farmer's
hand-writing.

My father, Thomas Farmer, is now at Leicester, and is the only male
issue of his generation. He was born on the 10th of May, 1744. I was
born on the 21st of August, 1771, and am the only issue left, and I am
in possession of land in the vicinity of Nuneaton, sharing it equally
with Mr. Arnold of Ashley, no great distance from Daventry, in the
County of Northampton.

Of the present owner of Ancely, or Astly, I know nothing; but in the
old papers, I find John Farmer of Ancely, in the County of Warwick,
passes a time, Sept. 1st, 1604, and that a John Farmer, in 1663,
[1633?] contracts marriage with Isabel Barbage of Great Packington, in
the County of Warwick, and that Isabel, in after marriage articles, is
stiled "_now of New England_;" that John Farmer of Nuneaton married
Sarah Daws of Tamworth, and settles the estate at Ancely upon her.
Richard F., son of John and Sarah, was baptized at Nuneaton, Sept. 15,
1698, and married Hannah Knibb of Brinklow, in the County of Warwick,
Jan. 4, 1732-3. Their eldest son, Richard, born May 4, 1735, was the
person whom you have rightly named of such extensive literary fame and
acquirements.

I shall seal this with the seal[22] which Dr. Farmer wore and used, and
the Arms I read, "He beareth Sable, Chevron between three Lamps Argent,
with Fire Proper, by the name of Farmer." This coat was assigned to
George Farmer, Esq., 1663, second son of Bartholomew Farmer, Gent.[23]
of Radcliffe, near Atherstone, Warwickshire. The patent was to _alter_
the Chevron of the family, though it mentions not what anciently were
the Arms of the family.

       *       *       *       *       *

_From the same to the same, dated Aspley-Guise, Dec. 1, 1823._

Sir,--The family of Farmers from which we are descended, were living
about the year of our Lord, 1500, at a village called Ratcliffe-Cuiley,
which is in Leicestershire, and adjoining the Counties of Warwick
and Stafford. One of them was a Judge in the Court of Common Pleas,
and you observe by the scrap enclosed, another of them, Chancellor of
the Cathedral Church of Salisbury, which scrap is the hand-writing
of the author on the learning of Shakspeare. Most of them are buried
in a vault belonging to the family, in the church of Witherly, (near
Ratcliffe) in the County of Leicester. My grandfather's name was
_Richard_, who married a Miss Knibb, and their family consisted
of Richard, [b. May 4, 1735,] the annotator on our immortal bard,
Prebendary of Canterbury, then a Canon Residentiary of St. Paul's,
London, the Master of Emmanuel College in Cambridge, and principal
Librarian of that University; _John_, in holy Orders; _Thomas_, my
father, [b. May 10, 1744,] who married the 3rd dau. of John Andrew,
Esq., of Harlestone-Park in the County of Northampton; _Joseph_, Lieut.
Col. of the Royal Leicester volunteers; _Hannah_, unmarried; _Sarah_
married Allen Brown, Esq., of Cosby, near Leicester, and afterwards
Richard Jervis, a surgeon of Latterworth; _Mary_ married [in 1768,]
the Hon. Richard Byron, [b. Oct. 28, 1724,] brother of the late Lord
[William] Byron.

FOOTNOTES:

[4] See Camden's Remains, 4to, London, 1603.

[5] Skinner's Etymologicon Linguæ Anglicanæ. Spelman's Glossarium
Archæologicum.

[6] MS. Letter. See Appendix.

[7] Dodson's Memoirs.

[8] Wood's Athenæ Oxon. ii. 618.--Burnet's Own Times, ii.
699.--Salmon's Geog. Gram.--Hume.--Goldsmith, &c.

[9] Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses.

[10] Guillim's Heraldry, 310.

[11] Guillim's Heraldry, 186.

[12] Calamy, Ejected Ministers, ii. 437.

[13] Douglass' Summary, i. 135.

[14] See Monthly Review.

[15] Calamy, ii. 609.

[16] London Magazine, xli. 268.

[17] Watt's Bibliotheca Britannica.

[18] Wood's Athenæ Oxonienses.

[19] At this place is the Hermitage, in which is the well known
inscription written by Thomas Warton, D. D., beginning with,

    "Beneath this stony roof reclined,
    I soothe to peace my pensive mind."

[20] From a deposition, taken July 21, 1691, before Richard Hopkins,
relating to the last will and testament of Mr. John Farmer of Ansley,
signed by EDWARD FARMER, son of the said John, it appears that EDWARD,
the deponent, was an inhabitant of Ansley at that time. It is, however,
evident, that within a few years after, he had become settled in New
England. The birth of his eldest son, in 1671, is inserted in the
Records of Billerica, although it is doubtful whether he settled there
before 1673.

[21] The genealogy of the Chelmsford Richardsons has been traced to
Capt. Josiah R., living in that place in 1659, supposed to have been
son of Samuel of Woburn, who d. March 23, 1658. Josiah, mentioned in
the text, was b. May 8, 1734, d. April 15, 1801, a. 66. His father,
Capt. Zachariah R., was b. Feb., 1696, d. March 22, 1776, a. 80.
Josiah, his father, was b. May 18, 1665, d. Oct. 17, 1711, a. 45. The
father of the last Josiah was Capt. Josiah, first mentioned in this
note, who d. July 22, 1695.

[22] The impression of this seal is deposited in the cabinet of the
American Antiquarian Society, at Worcester.

[23] Bartholomew was the son of John Farmer of Leicester, and grandson
of Bartholomew of the same place, as appears by the [Herald's]
visitation of that county in 1619.




MEMOIRS OF GRADUATES OF HARVARD COLLEGE.

                    Commencing with the year 1670.

                     BY THE LATE JOHN FARMER, ESQ.

     NOTE. The year they were graduated is prefixed to the name of
                 each person, in the several Memoirs.


NATHANIEL HIGGINSON.

1670. NATHANIEL HIGGINSON, son of Rev. John Higginson, pastor of the
first church in Salem, was born at Guilford, Ct., Oct. 11, 1652. After
receiving his second degree in 1673, he made preparation to go to
England, where an uncle of his had been settled as a clergyman, and
where he had a number of relations. He went thither the following year,
and was soon introduced to Lord Wharton, with whom he remained about
seven years, in the capacity of steward and tutor to his children. He
was employed in the mint of the Tower in 1681, and went in 1683 in the
East India Company's service to Fort St. George in the East Indies; was
a member and secretary of the council, and afterwards governor of the
factory at said fort. He married Elizabeth Richards, 1692; returned
to England with his wife and four children in 1700, and established
himself as a merchant in London, and did considerable business with his
New England friends.

In 1706, we find his name, with 19 others, signed to a petition full of
invective against Joseph Dudley, then Governor of Massachusetts, and
praying for his removal, which was presented and read to Queen Anne in
council. Gov. Dudley, in his answer to the charges contained in this
petition, notices several of the petitioners, and thus speaks of Mr.
H. "Mr. Higginson is a gentleman of good value, born in New England,
but has been absent in the East Indies six and twenty years, and so may
be presumed to know nothing of the country. To be sure, his father,
that has been a minister in the country near sixty years, yet living,
and his brother, a member of her Majesty's Council, must know more,
his brother having been always assisting the Governor, and consenting
in Col. Dudley's justification at this time with the Council, where
no man has dissented from the vote sent herewith." The allegations
against Gov. Dudley in this petition, were voted by the General Court,
or Council and House, to be a "wicked and scandalous accusation;" but
some persons of note, considering the high character of Mr. Higginson
and his good interest at court, "signified by their letters, that they
thought the two Houses impolitic in the severity of their expressions,
which, from being their friend, might, at least, cause him to become
cool and indifferent." We know not the effect of the language of the
General Court on the mind of Mr. Higginson, but we cannot suppose it
alienated his affections from his native country. He lived but two
years after, to serve the interests of his friends in New England. He
died in London of the small pox, in November, 1708, aged 56 years. He
had been for several years a member of the Corporation for Propagating
the Gospel among the Indians of New England. Judge Sewall says, he had
been acquainted with him for forty years, and seems to have had a high
opinion of his character and public services. _Felt, Annals of Salem_,
350. _Hutchinson, Hist. Mass._ ii. 146, 147. _Gov. Dudley's MS. Answer
to Mr. H.'s petition_ (the _original_, which escaped, in part, the fury
of the mob, when they destroyed Gov. Hutchinson's house.)


AMMI RUHAMAH CORLET.

1670. AMMI RUHAMAH CORLET was son of the celebrated schoolmaster,
Elijah Corlet, of whom an early poet sang,

    "'Tis Corlet's pains, and Cheever's, we must own,
    That thou, New England, art not Scythia grown."

The father was educated at Lincoln College in the University of Oxford,
and the son had all the advantages of early preparation, which could
be derived from so distinguished a scholar. Having been graduated, he
appears to have followed the business of his father, and in 1672 we
find him at Plymouth, as the Master of the principal school in that
place. After taking his second degree, or about that time, he was a
Fellow of the College, in which office, it is presumed, he continued
till his death, which occurred Feb. 1, 1679.


THOMAS CLARK.

1670. THOMAS CLARK, son of Jonas Clarke, of Cambridge, a surveyor of
some note, was born, March 2, 1653. Rev. Mr. Allen, in his History
of Chelmsford, says in relation to Mr. Clark, "We have neither church
records, manuscript sermons, cotemporary notices, nor any other
materials, from which a bare memento can be erected, excepting the
following sentence in the 9th volume of the Hist. Coll. of Mass.,
page 195. 'Dorchester, 1704, Dec. 10. The death of Rev. Thomas Clark
of Chelmsford was lamented in a sermon from Acts xx: 25, &c.' A great
loss to all our towns, and especially to our frontier towns on that
side of the country, who are greatly weakened with the loss of such a
man." Besides the above extract from Mr. Allen, we find a fact in Dr.
Cotton Mather's "Wonders of the Invisible World," which is creditable
to the character of Mr. Clark. In the time of the witchcraft delusion,
"there was at Chelmsford an afflicted person, that in her fits cried
out against a woman, a neighbor, which Mr. Clark, the minister of
the gospel there, could not believe to be guilty of such a crime,
[witchcraft.] And it happened while that woman milked her cow, the
cow struck her with one horn upon the forehead and fetched blood. And
while she was bleeding, a spectre of her likeness appeared to the party
afflicted, who pointing at the spectre, one struck at the place, and
the afflicted said, _You have made her forehead bleed!_ Hereupon some
went to the woman and found her forehead bloody, and acquainted Mr.
Clark with it, who forthwith went to the woman and asked her, _How her
forehead became bloody?_ and she answered, _By a blow of the cow's
horn_, as abovesaid; whereby he was satisfied that it was a design
of Satan to render an innocent person suspected." The conduct of Mr.
Clark in this decision, made at the time when the spectral evidence
was so generally received, probably prevented the infatuation from
extending to Chelmsford. Happy would it have been had all ministers and
magistrates exercised a like discrimination in rejecting all evidence
against persons whose characters had been previously good. By the
magistrates at Salem, the coincidence of the imaginary wound inflicted
on the spectre, and the real wound from the cow's horn on the woman,
would have been sufficient for the condemnation of the latter.

Mr. Clark was the minister of Chelmsford twenty-seven years, having
been ordained, in 1677, as the successor of Rev. John Fiske. His labors
were suddenly terminated, being seized, according to Judge Sewall's
Diary, with a fever, on Friday the 2nd, which caused his death on the
following Wednesday, December 7, 1704, in the 52nd year of his age.

Mr. Clark was twice married. The name of his first wife was Mary, who
died Dec. 2, 1700. His second was Elizabeth, daughter of Rev. Samuel
Whiting, whom he married, Oct. 2, 1702. His children, who lived to
mature years, all by his first wife, were Lucy, who married Major John
Tyng, father of Judge John Tyng, Sept. 19, 1700. She died April 25,
1708; Elizabeth, who married John Hancock of West Cambridge; Jonas,
born Dec. 2, 1684, who resided on the farm, known by the name of
the Cragie farm. There he kept a public house and ferry which have
ever since borne his name. His house was the general resort for
all fashionable people. He was honored with many civil and military
offices; was a very popular man, and esteemed as a good Christian. He
died April 8, 1770, aged 86. Thomas, the youngest son, was born Sept.
28, 1694.


GEORGE BURROUGH.

1670. GEORGE BURROUGH, or as the name is usually spelt, Burroughs, was,
perhaps, a son of Jeremiah Burroughs, an inhabitant of Scituate, Ms.,
as early as 1647; but we have no certain information of his parentage
or the time of his birth. He was admitted a member of the church in
Roxbury, April 12, 1674, and his son George was baptized in the church
there, Nov. 28, 1675. He became a preacher within a few years after he
left College, and, as early as 1675 or 1676, he was the minister at
Casco, in Maine, and was there when that town suffered the loss of so
many lives by an attack of the Indians. The war which soon followed,
drove Mr. Burroughs from Maine, and he returned to Massachusetts.
In November, 1680, he was employed to preach at Salem Village, now
Salem. He continued there probably until 1683, when, in May, Mr.
Lawson was invited to preach to the people. Mr. Burroughs returned
to his ministry in Casco the same year. A work entitled "European
Settlements in America," in speaking of Mr. Burroughs as a victim of
the Salem Witchcraft, says, "that he was a gentleman who had formerly
been minister of Salem; but upon some of the religious disputes which
divided the country he differed from his flock, and left them." Mather,
in his "Wonders of the Invisible World," countenances this idea, saying
"he had removed from Salem Village in ill terms some years before."
Mr. Willis, in his History of Portland, says, "The first notice of his
return to Casco is in June, 1683, when, at the request of the town, he
relinquished 150 acres of land, which had been granted to him previous
to the war. In their application to him for this purpose, they offered
to give him 100 acres 'further off,' for the quantity relinquished, but
Burroughs replied, 'as for the land already taken away, we were welcome
to it, and, if 20 acres of the 50 above expressed would pleasure us,
he freely gave it to us, not desiring any land anywhere else, nor any
thing else in consideration thereof.'"

His disinterestedness places the character of Mr. Burroughs in an
amiable light, which nothing can be found, during the whole course of
his ministry at Casco, to impair. The large quantity of land which he
relinquished was situated upon the Neck, which was then daily becoming
more valuable, by the location of the town upon it. All this, excepting
thirty acres, he freely returned, without accepting the consideration
offered by the town.

The unhappy catastrophe which terminated the life and usefulness of Mr.
Burroughs, has cast a shade upon many facts relating to him which would
be interesting to us to know. We have no means of ascertaining whether
he was regularly settled and had gathered a church at Casco or not.
There is, however, sufficient authority for asserting, that he preached
to the people there a longer period than any Congregational minister
prior to Rev. Thomas Smith.

"There has nothing," says Mr. Willis, "survived Mr. Burroughs, either
in his living or dying, that casts any reproach upon his character;
and, although he died a victim of a fanaticism, as wicked and stupid as
any which has been countenanced in civilized society, and which for a
time prejudiced his memory, yet his character stands redeemed in a more
enlightened age from any blemish."

Mr. Burroughs was driven from Casco by the Indians in 1690, and went to
Wells, where he resided when he was accused of the crime of witchcraft.
The indictment against him is given in the second volume of Hutchinson.
He was examined on May 8, 1692, and committed to prison in Boston until
his trial, which took place in August following. He was condemned on
testimony, which nothing but the most highly wrought infatuation could
for a moment have endured. His great strength and activity, for which
he had been remarkable from his youth, were enlisted against him,
as having been derived from the Prince of evil. It was in evidence,
that he had lifted a barrel of molasses by putting his finger in the
bunghole, and carried it round him; that he held a gun more than
seven feet long at arm's length with one hand, and performed other
surprising feats above the power of humanity. Some evidence was also
exhibited against his moral character, in relation to his treatment of
his wives and children, but we can attach but very little credit to it
considering the great perversion of truth at that time.

He was executed August 19, 1692, on Gallows hill, in Salem. At his
execution, he made a most solemn, pertinent, and affecting prayer,
which drew the remark from Cotton Mather, who was present, as I was
informed by the late Dr. Bentley, "that no man could have made such a
prayer unless the devil helped him." He concluded his dying petition
with the Lord's prayer, probably to convince some of the spectators of
his innocence; for it was the received opinion, that a true witch or
wizard could not say the Lord's prayer without blundering.

The age of Mr. Burroughs is represented by Dr. Bentley, in his Hist. of
Salem, published in 1 Coll. Mass. Hist. Soc. vi., to have been _about
fourscore years_; but that writer undoubtedly transferred the age of
Giles Cory, who wanted only three years of being _fourscore_, to Mr.
Burroughs. It can by no means be admitted, that Mr. B. was nearly 60
years old when he graduated, which must have been the case if he was 80
years old at the time he was executed.

Mr. Burroughs had been three times married. The names of his first and
second wives are not known. His last was daughter of Thomas Ruck, and
she survived him. His children were George, baptized 1675, who lived
in Ipswich; Jeremiah, who was insane; Rebecca, who married a Tolman of
Boston; Hannah, who married a Fox, and lived near Barton's Point in
Boston; Elizabeth, who married Peter Thomas of Boston, the ancestor
of the late Isaiah Thomas, LL. D., of Worcester. George and Thomas
Burroughs of Newburyport, the former a tanner, conveyed to N. Winslow,
in 1774, the right of George Burroughs in proprietary land in Falmouth.
These were probably descendants of the minister.--_Hutchinson, Hist.
Mass._ ii. 57-59. _Felt, Annals of Salem._ _Neal's Hist. N. E._ ii.
130-134, 144. _Willis, Hist. Portland in Coll. Maine Hist. Soc._ i.
144, 174-176. _Upham, Lectures on Witchcraft._ _Allen, Biog. Dict. art.
Burroughs._


ISAAC FOSTER.

1671. ISAAC FOSTER, according to the late William Winthrop, Esq.,
was from Charlestown, and might have been brother of John Foster,
who was graduated in 1667; but this is uncertain, as the latter was
from Dorchester. [We find him to have been admitted freeman in 1679,
about which time, he probably went to Connecticut.] Mr. Winthrop may
have considered him as belonging to Charlestown from the circumstance
of his being called to preach there. When a committee of the town of
Charlestown was about selecting a successor to Rev. Thomas Shepard,
in 1678, the opinions of Rev. John Sherman, Rev. Increase Mather,
and Rev. President Oakes were requested as to the "fittest person"
for their minister, and these gentlemen recommended Mr. Foster as
"the fittest and suitablest person" for that place. While remaining
at Charlestown he was admitted freeman, in 1679. Soon after this, he
went to Connecticut and preached in Hartford, and, from his name being
printed in italics, it has been inferred that he was settled there, but
this does not clearly appear from Dr. Trumbull.


SAMUEL PHIPPS.

1671. SAMUEL PHIPPS, son, it is presumed, of Solomon Phipps of
Charlestown, who died in that town, July 25, 1671, was born about the
year 1649. The most of his life was passed in civil offices, having
been Register of Deeds for the county of Middlesex, Clerk of the Court
of Common Pleas for the same county, and representative for the town
of Charlestown, where he resided. To the last office he was elected
in 1692, being one of the first representatives under the charter of
William and Mary. In 1700, he was one of the Commissioners of claims
for receiving and examining all titles and claims to land in the
eastern province of Maine. Mr. Phipps died in August, 1725, aged 76,
and was buried in the tomb of his son-in-law Lemmon. His wife was Mary
Danforth, daughter of Dep. Gov. Thomas Danforth. She was born July 28,
1650. [We find the name of Danforth associated with Phipps in the class
of 1781.] Thomas Phipps, who graduated in 1695, was his son.

                          (To be continued.)




COMPLETE LIST OF CONGREGATIONAL MINISTERS IN THE EASTERN PART OF
ROCKINGHAM COUNTY, NEW HAMPSHIRE, FROM ITS SETTLEMENT TO THE PRESENT
TIME; TOGETHER WITH NOTES ON THE MINISTERS AND CHURCHES.

BY THE REV. JONATHAN FRENCH OF NORTH HAMPTON.


  -------------------------------------------------------------------------
  _Towns._ |    _Ministers._   |  _Native     |   _Born._    | _Graduated._
           |                   |    Place._   |              |
  ---------+-------------------+--------------+--------------+-------------
  Brentwood|Nathaniel Trask    |Lexington, Ms.|Mar. 18,  1723|Harv.    1742
           |                   |              |              |
           |Ebenezer Flint     |Methuen, Ms.  |          1769|Dart.    1798
           |Chester Colton     |Hartford, Ct. |              |Yale,    1804
           |Luke A. Spofford   |Jaffrey       |Nov. 5,   1785|Mid.     1815
           |Jonathan Ward, s.s.|Plymouth      |Aug. 24,  1769|Dart.    1792
           |Francis Welch      |Hampstead     |              |Union,   1832
           |John Gunnison      |Hampton       |April 15, 1798|----     ----
           |James Boutwell     |Lyndeborough  |Dart.     1836|Nov. 4,  1841
  Deerfield|Timothy Upham      |Malden, Ms.   |Dec. 20,  1748|Harv.    1768
           |Nathaniel Wells    |Wells, Me.    |July 13,  1774|Dart.    1795
           |Ephraim N. Hidden  |Tamworth      |Aug. 28,  1811|Dart.    1836
  Epping   |Robert Cutler      |Cambridge, Ms.|          1718|Harv.    1741
           |Josiah Stearns     |Billerica, Ms.|Jan. 20,  1732|Harv.    1751
           |Peter Holt         |Andover, Ms.  |June 12,  1763|Harv.    1790
           |Forest Jefferds    |Wells, Me.    |Aug. 4,   1794|
           |Calvin Chapman     |Bethel, Me.   |Nov. 13,  1814|Bowd.    1839
           |Enoch Corser, s.s. |Boscawen      |Jan. 2,   1787|Mid.     1811

  ----------------------------------------------------------
  _Towns._ |    _Ministers._   | _Settled._  |  _Dismissed_
           |                   |             |   _or died._
  ---------+-------------------+-------------+--------------
  Brentwood|Nathaniel Trask    |ord.  1748}  |Dec. 12,  1789
           |                   |inst. 1756}  |
           |Ebenezer Flint     |May 27,  1801|Oct. 12,  1811
           |Chester Colton     |Jan. 25, 1815|Mar. 16,  1825
           |Luke A. Spofford   |Feb. 22, 1826|April 1,  1829
           |Jonathan Ward, s.s.|             |
           |Francis Welch      |Dec. 4,  1833|Oct. 4,   1837
           |John Gunnison      |June 12, 1839|June,     1841
           |James Boutwell     |             |
  Deerfield|Timothy Upham      |Dec. 9,  1772|Feb. 21,  1811
           |Nathaniel Wells    |July 1,  1812|Sept. 1,  1841
           |Ephraim N. Hidden  |Sept. 1, 1841|
  Epping   |Robert Cutler      |Dec. 9,  1747|Dec. 9,   1755
           |Josiah Stearns     |March 8, 1758|July 25,  1788
           |Peter Holt         |Feb. 27, 1793|April 25, 1821
           |Forest Jefferds    |Oct. 26, 1826|Oct. 31,  1831
           |Calvin Chapman     |Dec. 8,  1842|April 10, 1845
           |Enoch Corser, s.s. |


NOTES.

BRENTWOOD. In Dec. 12, 1748, according to Farmer's Statistics of New
Hampshire ministers, _Rev. Nathaniel Trask_ was settled in this place.

"Jan. 18, 1756, this church [Hampton church] was sent for to install
the Rev. Mr. Trask at Brentwood. They chose Deacons Tuck and Lane, who
went. And the affair was completed with love and peace, decency and
good order. Mr. Odlin and Flagg prayed. I preached, Col. iv: 17. Mr.
Whipple gave the charge. Attest, W. Cotton, Pastor."

Over a church newly organized, Mr. Trask was installed, as stated in
the records of Rev. W. Cotton, Jan. 21, 1756.

Mr. Trask retained the pastoral office in Brentwood, 41 years; though
he ceased from his pulpit labors, about two years before his death,
which occurred Dec. 12, 1789, at the age of 67. He married Parnel
Thing, June 15, 1749. Their children were Elizabeth, born July 30,
1750, died in Brentwood, Parnel, born July 2, 1752, died Sept. 8, 1756.
Nathaniel, born Sept. 8. 1754, died Sept. 5, 1756; Mary, born Sept.
14, 1756. Parnel, born Aug. 27, 1759, died July 21, 1762. Samuel,
born Sept. 10, 1762, settled and died in Brentwood, where his son and
daughter now live. Jonathan, born Dec. 12, 1764, settled in Mount
Vernon, Me.

From the decease of Mr. Trask, the church was without a pastor eleven
years and a half. During that period, _more than a hundred individuals_
were employed as candidates for settlement, or as supplies. Eight or
ten, successively, received and declined invitations to settle.

At the ordination of the _Rev. Ebenezer Flint_, the church had become
reduced to six male and thirteen female members. Mr. Flint died
suddenly, Oct. 12, 1811, aged 42, leaving a widow, who died at the age
of 72 years.

He studied theology with the Rev. Dr. Emmons. He married Mary, daughter
of Deacon Kendall of Tewksbury, Ms. Two of his children were Mary
K., who married Ebenezer Orne, and Abigail J., who married Jonathan
Robinson, 3rd. The youngest son of Mr. Flint, Ezra M., married Louisa
P. Haynes of Charlestown, Ms., and now lives there. The eldest,
Ebenezer, resides in Brentwood, unmarried.

From the time of Mr. Flint's death, the church was destitute of a
pastor more than four years.

_Rev. Chester Colton_ preached at Brentwood, July 21, 1813. He proved
to be the Barnabas they needed; and the friends of religious order,
being encouraged and strengthened, settled him. Rev. Mr. Rowland of
Exeter preached the ordination sermon, from 1 Cor. i: 21, and Rev. Dr.
Pearson of Andover, Ms., gave the charge.

The people became ardently attached to Mr. Colton, and his labors
were blessed. He was dismissed at his own urgent request, on account
of an inflammation of his eyes which forbade application to study.
Mr. Colton's vision was, in a few years, so far restored, by rest and
medical treatment, that he resumed the labors of a pastor, and was
installed at Lyme, Ct., Feb. 12, 1829. Recently he has labored under
the direction of the Connecticut Missionary Society, in North Goshen,
Ct.

_Rev. Luke Ainsworth Spofford_ was installed in Brentwood, and, after
laboring about three years, and not finding his hopes of usefulness
realized, he requested and received a dismission. The number of church
members reported, June, 1828, was 53. Subsequently to his ministry
at Brentwood, Mr. Spofford was installed at Lancaster, N. H., 1829;
Atkinson, N. H., 1832; Scituate, Ms., 1835; Chilmark, on Martha's
Vineyard, Ms., 1842; from which place he removed to Newburg, N. Y.,
where his family resides. Mr. Spofford, before he came to Brentwood,
had been ordained at Gilmanton, N. H., where he enjoyed a successful
ministry of six years; but, on account of the state of his health, and
the extent of the field, resigned June 9, 1825. For more particular
notices, see Rev. Mr. Lancaster's History of Gilmanton, and Notes
respecting the ministers in Gilmanton, in the first number of the New
Hampshire Repository, Vol. I.

After Mr. Spofford's resignation, the people in Brentwood enjoyed the
labors of _Rev. Jonathan Ward_ about three and a half years.

Mr. Ward studied theology with Rev. Dr. Emmons, and was ordained in
New Milford, now Alna, Me., in 1796, and resigned in 1818. Although
Mr. Ward has never been installed in New Hampshire, he has, in many
respects, performed the services of a pastor to some of the churches
in a very acceptable and useful manner. Mr. Ward labored twelve years,
most of the time statedly, in Plymouth, his native place, and the place
of his father's ministry, for more than thirty-two years.

Mr. Ward's father, Rev. Nathan Ward, was born at Newton, Ms., April 11,
1721, died June 15, 1804, aged 83. He married Tamasin Ireland, who was
born Jan. 1, 1722, O. S., and died Aug. 16, 1777. Rev. Nathan Ward,
who was hopefully converted under the preaching of Mr. Whitefield, had
not a collegiate education, but received an honorary degree of M. A.
from Dartmouth College. His children, beside Jonathan the youngest,
were Nathan, born Jan. 9, 1748, O. S., died Nov. 3, 1776; Enoch, born
July 4, 1749, died July 31, 1825; Abraham, born Feb. 9, 1751, died
Dec. 6, 1776; Mary, born Sept. 18, 1752, died Dec. 6, 1776; Abigail,
born March 31, 1755, N. S., died Sept. 16, 1841; Samuel, born Aug. 26,
1756, died Nov. 8, 1776; Isaac, born March 16, 1758, died Feb. 27,
1816; Benjamin, born Sept. 21, 1761, died ----; Daniel, born Jan. 30,
1764; Esther, born Aug. 17, 1767, died Dec. 8, 1776. The submission
of the parents was painfully tested, by the death of five of their
children, with a putrid fever, within five weeks. Enoch, brother of
Rev. N. Ward, entered the ministry, but died young. He graduated at
Harvard University, 1736. The grandfather of Rev. J. Ward was Joseph,
whose father was John, who settled in Newton, Ms., and one of a large
family, brought by their father, William Ward, from England, about
1646, who settled in Sudbury, Ms. Rev. Jonathan Ward married Philenia
Gay Whitaker of Attleborough, Ms., who was born April 6, 1776, and
died April 25, 1825. Their children were Jonathan, born Nov. 30, 1800,
graduated at D. C., 1822, studied at the Theological Seminary, Andover,
ordained at Biddeford, Me., Oct. 26, 1825, died Feb. 8, 1826, aged 25;
James Wilson, born May 21, 1803, graduated at D. C., 1826, studied
at the Theological Seminary, Andover, and at New Haven, ordained at
Abington, Ms., May 31, 1834; Philenia, born Oct. 16, 1804, married
Frederick Robinson of Brentwood; Laura Elizabeth, born May 7, 1807,
married Lucius M. Perdy of Sharon, Ct.

_Rev. Francis Welch_ was the fourth settled minister in Brentwood. He
has labored since he left that place in Ipswich, Linebrook Parish, Ms.;
and in Perry, Washington County, Me.

_Rev. John Gunnison_, who had been previously ordained at Lyman,
Me., May 12, 1831, installed over the Union Society of Salisbury and
Amesbury, Ms., Dec 31, 1835, and at Newmarket, Lamprey River, Feb. 22,
1837, was installed at Brentwood. He was, after leaving Brentwood,
installed at West Falmouth, Me., in Jan., 1842. He now resides at
Portland, but at present supplies the pulpit of the first church
in Westbrook. He studied theology with the Rev. Charles Jenkins of
Portland, Me., and entered the ministry late in life. He married for
his first wife, Joanna Dow of Gilmanton, and for his second, a woman by
the name of Starboard.

_Rev. James Boutwell_, who was born May 14, 1814, graduated at the
Theological Seminary, Andover, in 1840. He was an Instructor at
Dunkirk, N. Y., one year. Mr. Boutwell has seven brothers and one
sister older, and two sisters younger, than himself. His paternal
grandfather was of Wilmington, Ms. His maternal grandfather was Dr.
Benjamin Jones, of Lyndeborough, a physician of some celebrity, whose
native place was Ipswich, Ms. Mr. Boutwell's brother, William Thurston
Boutwell, was several years a missionary among the Ojibwa Indians, in
Wisconsin. Mr. Boutwell married Mary P., daughter of Dea. Pascal Abbot
of Andover, Ms., April 10, 1837. Their children are Mary Lucelia, born
at Dunkirk, N. Y., March 8, 1838; James Pascal, born at Andover, Feb.
6, 1840, died Oct. 31, 1844; George Clark, born at Brentwood, Feb.
8, 1842; Charles Hawley, born at Brentwood, Oct. 29, 1843; Hannah
Elizabeth, born March 11, 1846.

DEERFIELD was a part of Nottingham, from which it was separated, and
incorporated Jan. 8, 1766. The Congregational Society was formed in
Dec., 1772.

_Rev. Timothy Upham_ was the first minister. His first wife, who was
the mother of all his children, was Hannah, daughter of Rev. Nathaniel
Gookin of Northampton. Her twin sister, Elizabeth, married Dr. Edmund
Chadwick of Deerfield, father of Peter Chadwick, Esq., of Exeter. The
children of Rev. Mr. Upham are Hon. Nathaniel Upham of Rochester; Gen.
Timothy Upham of Portsmouth; and Miss Hannah Upham, the celebrated
Principal of the Female Institute in Canandaigua, N. Y. Among the
grandchildren of Rev. Mr. Upham, are Rev. Thomas Cogswell Upham, D.
D., Professor in Bowdoin College, who was previously pastor of the
Congregational church in Rochester; Hon. Nathaniel Gookin Upham, a
Judge of the Superior Court of N. H.; Mary, widow of Hon. David Barker,
Jr., and now wife of Ebenezer Coe, Esq.; Alfred, M. D., of New York;
Timothy, M. D., deceased; Joseph Badger Upham, Merchant in Portsmouth;
Judith Almira, married to James Bell, Esq.; Hannah Elizabeth, deceased;
Ruth Cogswell, married to John Berry, M. D.; Francis William, a member
of the Boston Bar; and Albert Gookin, M. D., of Boston.

The New England genealogy of the Rev. Timothy Upham is traced to
John Upham, born in England, in 1597, who emigrated to Weymouth, New
England, in 1635, and went thence to Malden. He was highly esteemed for
his piety, intelligence, and energy of character; filled various civil
offices, and was deacon of the church many years. He performed the
duties of moderator of a town meeting a few months before his death,
which took place Feb. 25, 1681, at the age of 84.

Lieut. Phinehas Upham, son of John Upham, married Ruth Wood. He died in
consequence of wounds received in the capture of Narraganset Fort, in
1675. Phinehas, son of Lieut. Phinehas, married Mary Mellins. His son
Phinehas married Tamzen Hill, whose son Timothy married Mary Cheever.
These last were the parents of Rev. Timothy Upham, whose New England
ancestors, from the first, were men of influence in the church, and in
the community, and were distinguished for intelligence, firmness of
character, and a spirit of enterprise. The first wife of Rev. Timothy
Upham died Aug. 4, 1797, aged 44. Mr. Upham died in the 63rd year of
his age, and 39th of his ministry. The sermon at his funeral, from Heb.
xiii: 8, by Rev. Peter Holt, ascribes to Mr. Upham "many gifts and
excellent qualifications for a gospel minister." Mr. Upham's second
wife, who was Miss Hephzibah Neal of Stratham, died May 11, 1811. See
_Family History, by Albert G. Upham, A. M., M. D._, 1845.

_Rev. Nathaniel Wells_ was engaged sixteen years in mercantile business
before entering the ministry. He studied theology with Rev. Moses
Hemmenway, D. D., of Wells, Me., whose daughter he married in 1797.
After a diligent and useful ministry of about 30 years, he resigned
his pastoral charge. Two of his sons are settled in the ministry.
Theodore, ordained in Barrington, June 12, 1845; Moses Hemmenway,
ordained in Pittsfield, Nov. 19, 1845. Rev. Nathaniel Wells was son of
Dea. Nathaniel Wells, whose father was also Dea. Nathaniel Wells, who
removed to Wells, Me., from Ipswich, Ms., and who was a son of Dea.
Thomas Wells of Ipswich, who died in that place, Oct. 26, 1666.

_Rev. Ephraim Nelson Hidden_ was Preceptor of Gilmanton Academy, three
years; graduated at Gilmanton Theological Seminary, 1840; was married,
Aug. 28, 1840, to Mary Elizabeth Parsons, daughter of Josiah Parsons,
Esq., of Gilmanton, whose wife was Judith Badger, great-granddaughter
of Gen. Joseph Badger, Senior. He was son of Ephraim Hidden, and nephew
of Rev. Samuel Hidden of Tamworth, N. H., and grandson of Price Hidden
of Rowley, Ms. His first New England ancestor emigrated from England
and settled in Rowley.

EPPING. _Rev. Robert Cutler_ was the first minister. In 1755, Mr.
Cutler, being charged with immoral conduct, was dismissed by a Council.
He was installed in Greenwich, Ms., Feb. 13, 1760, where he died, Feb.
24, 1786, aged probably 68.

_Rev. Josiah Stearns_ closed his ministry and life, July 25, 1788.
He descended from Isaac Stearns, who came from England, with Gov.
Winthrop, in 1630, and settled in Watertown. The line of descent
is 1. Isaac and Sarah Stearns. 2. John Stearns, who married Sarah
Mixer of Watertown. He settled in Billerica. 3. John Stearns, who
married Elizabeth ----. He was the first child born in Billerica,
on record. 4. John Stearns, who married Esther Johnson. She was a
_great-granddaughter_ of the celebrated Capt. Edward Johnson, author
of the History of New England, entitled "Wonder-working Providence
of Sion's Saviour in New England." In several publications, she is
incorrectly mentioned as the _daughter_ of the historian. Her father
was a second Capt. Edward Johnson, her grandfather was William Johnson,
Esq. John and Esther Stearns were the parents of Rev. Josiah Stearns of
Epping. The following short obituary notice appeared in a public print,
Aug. 27, 1788. It is attributed to the pen of the Rev. Dr. Tappan, then
of Newbury, afterwards Professor of Divinity in Harvard University.

"For the Essex Journal and New Hampshire Packet.

"Mr. Hoyt,--The Rev. Mr. Stearns, whose death was announced in your
last, sustained a character too great and too good to be passed over
in silence. The God of Nature endued him with singular abilities,
which, by the aid of erudition, fitted him for extensive usefulness.
His assiduous application to the work of the ministry was truly worthy
of imitation. In him shone an assemblage of virtues and graces which
rarely meet in the same person. He had a lively fancy, a penetrating
judgment, a correct taste, and a mind expanded as the heavens. His
conversation was ever seasonable, grave, pathetic, and instructive.
His public discourses were replete with good sense, with important
truths in a clear and instructive light, and received the approbation
of the best judges. He despised pageantry, without the appearance of
affectation. He trusted to nothing mortal; pitied, but envied not,
such as had their portion in this life. His advice in Council was
often sought, and ever approved. He had a constitutional firmness, and
was capable of the most dispassionate reasoning. He repudiated errors
ancient and modern, and rejoiced to the last in his faithful adherence
to the doctrines of grace. Elevated by the purer sentiments, he ever
possessed a mind calm and serene. God, who is all-wise in council, was
pleased to try his faith and patience in the furnace of affliction.
After a lingering and painful sickness, he died of a cancer, in the
57th year of his age. In him died a friend to justice, liberty,
and energetic government; a vigorous watchman, a patient guide, an
affectionate pastor, a prudent, kind husband, and an indulgent but
truly faithful parent."

Mr. Stearns was a close and thorough student. He studied the Scriptures
in their original languages, with unremitting diligence. His limited
means would not allow him to possess much of a library, but he was
favored with the use of books by friends, who were able to own them.
He was accustomed to borrow one volume at a time, and when he had read
it through, its contents were his own. The late Rev. Dr. Thayer of
Kingston, mentioning this fact, added, "The Bible especially was his
Library." So intimate was his knowledge of the Scriptures, that "he
could readily cite chapter and verse, where almost any text was to
be found." Mr. Stearns was an ardent friend of liberty. "Some of his
sons were in the field, during a greater part of the Revolutionary
contest; and he sacrificed most of his worldly interest in support of
the American cause." [_Alden's Epitaphs._] He was a member of a State
Convention, in Exeter, in which he regarded himself as fully committed
to the risk of his personal safety. Returning from the Convention, he
called his children around him, told them of the stand he had taken,
and added, "If the cause shall prevail it will be a great blessing to
the country, but if it should fail, your poor old father's head will
soon be a button for a halter."

Mr. Stearns was tall in person, and interesting in his pulpit
performances. He held the untiring attention of his audience, which not
unfrequently filled the seats and aisles of his meeting-house, while,
in pleasant weather, a number stood abroad around the doors and windows.

Of the printed sermons of Mr. Stearns, two were on 1 John iv: 8,--"God
is love." These were preached in Exeter, and printed after his death,
at the request, made to him in his last sickness, of Hon. John
Phillips, for the use of the members of the Academy. Another was on
early piety, with a brief memoir of Samuel Lawrence, preached Sept. 19,
1779. Another was a Fast sermon.

Mr. Stearns married first, Sarah Abbot of Andover. They had three
sons and three daughters. One of the sons was John Stearns, Esq., of
Deerfield, N. H. Mrs. Stearns died in November, 1766. In September,
1767, he married Sarah Ruggles, daughter of Rev. Samuel Ruggles of
Billerica, who was a grandson of Rev. John Woodbridge of Andover, and
great-grandson of Gov. Thomas Dudley. By the second marriage, also, Mr.
Stearns had three sons and three daughters.

Rev. Samuel Stearns, son of Rev. Josiah Stearns, by his second
marriage, was born in Epping, April 8, 1770; graduated at H. U. 1794;
studied theology with Rev. Jonathan French of Andover; and was ordained
in Bedford, Ms., April 27, 1795, where he died, Dec. 26, 1834, aged
65. He married Abigail, daughter of Rev. Mr. French of Andover. She
was a descendant from John Alden, one of the first Pilgrims, who is
said by some to have been the first person, who leaped upon the rock
at Plymouth, New England, in 1620. Rev. Mr. Stearns of Bedford lived
to see three of his sons settled in the ministry. Rev. Samuel Horatio
Stearns, ordained over the Old South Church in Boston, Ms., April 16,
1834, died in Paris, France, July 15, 1837. His remains were brought
to his native country, and rest in Mount Auburn Cemetery. Rev. William
Augustus Stearns, ordained at Cambridgeport, Dec. 14, 1831, married
Rebecca Alden Frazer of Duxbury. Rev. Jonathan French Stearns was
ordained pastor of the first Presbyterian Church in Newburyport,
Sept. 16, 1835. He married first, Joanna Chaplin, daughter of Dr.
James Prescott Chaplin of Cambridgeport. He married secondly, Anna
S. Prentiss of Portland, Me. Sarah Caroline, a daughter of Rev. Mr.
Stearns of Bedford, married Rev. Forest Jefferds, who was ordained at
Epping, and afterwards installed at Middleton, Ms. Charlotte Esther,
a daughter of Rev. Samuel Stearns, married Rev. Jonathan Leavitt. He
was ordained at Bedford, and afterwards installed at Providence, R.
I. Rev. Josiah Howe Stearns, son of Dea. William Stearns and grandson
of Rev. Josiah Stearns of Epping, was ordained at Dennysville, Me.,
Nov. 6, 1844, and married Eliza Kilby, daughter of John Kilby, Esq.,
of that place. The mother of Rev. Josiah Howe Stearns, who was, before
marriage, Abigail Richards Howe of Templeton, Ms., was a descendant of
John Alden of Pilgrim memory.

_Rev. Peter Holt_, third pastor at Epping, was son of Joshua Holt,
Esq., whose brother, Rev. Nathan Holt, was pastor of the second
Church in Danvers, Ms. Rev. Peter Holt studied theology with Rev. Mr.
French of Andover. He was installed over the Presbyterian church in
Peterborough, March 7, 1827; resigned April, 1835; preached in Deering
from 1835 to 1841. See notices of Mr. Holt by Rev. Mr. Whiton, in
the N. H. Repository, Vol. I. No. 3. Rev. Mr. Holt of Epping married
Hannah, daughter of Rev. Nathan Holt. They had seven children. Two
survive, Sarah and Mary; the first of these married Samuel Endicott of
Beverly. Nathan died at Epping, in his 12th year, of whom there is an
obituary in the Piscataqua Evan. Mag. Vol. IV. p. 36. The family of Mr.
Holt is traced to Nicholas Holt, who came from England to Newbury, in
1635, removed to Andover, and was one of the ten males who founded the
church there in 1645. [_Coffin's History of Newbury_; _Abbot's History
of Andover_; _Farmer's Genealogical Register._]

_Rev. Forest Jefferds_, who succeeded Mr. Holt, was son of Samuel,
who was the son of Samuel, who was the son of Rev. Samuel Jefferds of
Wells, Me., whose father emigrated from England to Salem, Ms. Rev.
Samuel Jefferds was favored with a revival of religion in Wells, in
1741-2, and was one of the attestors by letter to "the happy revival
of religion in many parts of the land." [_Tracy's Hist. Great Awak._,
p. 295.] Rev. Forest Jefferds received his classical and theological
education at the Theological Seminary, Bangor, graduated 1825, was
installed at Middleton, Ms., May 2, 1832, resigned May 15, 1844. Mr.
Jefferds married Sarah Caroline, daughter of Rev. Samuel Stearns of
Bedford.

_Rev. Calvin Chapman_ was next ordained in Epping. A new house of
worship had been erected, which was dedicated in connection with
the services of his ordination. He graduated at Andover Theological
Seminary, 1842, married Lucy B. Emerson of Parsonsfield, Me. Mr.
Chapman is now settled at Sacarappa, Me.

_Rev. Mr. Corser_ was a son of David Corser of Boscawen, who was a
son of John, and grandson of John of Newbury, Ms., who emigrated to
this country from Scotland, about the year 1690. John, with David his
son, removed from Newbury to Boscawen, in the early settlement of the
town, and purchased the whole of that tract of land, which, from their
name, is called Corser's Hill. Mr. Corser studied divinity with Rev.
Dr. Harris of Dunbarton, and was ordained in Loudon, March 5, 1817. He
was dismissed from his charge Sept. 20, 1838. He preached as a supply
at Northfield and Plymouth, till 1845. Since then he has supplied at
Epping, where he now resides. His son, Samuel B. G. Corser, graduated
at Dartmouth College, in 1841.

                          (To be continued.)




FOREIGN MISSIONARIES FROM NORWICH, CT.


The following is supposed to be a correct list of the Missionaries that
have gone out from Norwich. About twenty of them were natives, and the
others were for a considerable period residents of the town, before
entering upon the duties of the missionary. Two of them, it will be
seen, belong to an earlier period than the organization of the American
Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions. One is attached to a
Methodist Mission; one is an Episcopal clergyman in the employ of the
Colonization Society, and twenty-four have been in the service of the
American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions.

  Year.          Names.                              Mission.

  1761. Rev. Samson Occum, (Mohegan,)                Oneida.
  1766. Rev. Samuel Kirkland,                           "
  1812. Rev. Samuel Nott, Jr.,                       Mahratta.
    "   Mrs. Nott, (Roxana Peck,)                        "
  1819. Rev. Miron Winslow,   Ceylon.
    "   Mrs. Winslow, (Harriet L. Lathrop,)              "
  1820. Mrs. Palmer, (Clarissa Johnson,)             Cherokee.
  1821. Rev. William Potter,                            "
  1825. Rev. William H. Manwaring,                      "
  1826. Mrs. Gleason, (Bethiah W. Tracy,)            Choctaw.
  1827. Rev. Jonathan S. Green,                      Sandwich Islands.
    "   Mrs. Gulick, (Fanny H. Thomas,)                 "        "
  1833. Mrs. Smith, (Sarah L. Huntington,)           Syria.
    "   Mrs. Palmer, (Jerusha Johnson,)              Cherokee.
    "   Mrs. Hutchings, (Elizabeth C. Lathrop,)      Ceylon.
    "   Mrs. Perry, (Harriet J. Lathrop,)               "
    "   Rev. Stephen Johnson,                        Siam.
  1835. Rev. James T. Dickinson,                     Singapore.
    "   Rev. William Tracy,                          Madura.
    "   Mrs. Hebard, (Rebecca W. Williams,)          Syria.
  1836. Mrs. Cherry, (Charlotte H. Lathrop,)         Madura.
    "   Rev. James L. Thomson,                       Cyprus.
  1839. Mrs. Sherman, (Martha E. Williams,)          Syria.
    "   Mrs. Brewer, (Laura L. Giddings,)            Oregon.
    "   Mrs. Cherry, (Jane E. Lathrop,)              Ceylon.
  1840. Rev. Joshua Smith,                           Africa.
  1843. Miss Susan Tracy,                            Choctaw.
  1844. Miss Lucinda Downer,                         Choctaw.

                                                  _History of Norwich._

       *       *       *       *       *

"To send an uneducated child into the world," says Paley, "is little
better than to turn out a mad dog or a wild beast into the streets."

       *       *       *       *       *

Mothers and schoolmasters plant the seeds of nearly all the good and
evil which exist in our world. Its reformation must, therefore, be
begun in nurseries, and schools.--_Dr. Rush._




THE PASSENGERS OF THE MAY FLOWER IN 1620.

BY NATHANIEL BRADSTREET SHURTLEFF, M. D.


As early as the year 1602, several religious people residing near
the joining borders of Nottinghamshire, Lincolnshire, and Yorkshire,
together with their pious ministers, being grievously oppressed by
courts and canons, resolved to shake off the yoke of antichristian
bondage, and, as the Lord's free people, to form themselves by covenant
into a church-state, to walk in all his ways according to their best
knowledge and endeavors, cost them whatever it might.

In the year 1606, by reason of the distance of their habitations, these
people were obliged to assemble in two places and become two distinct
churches; over one of which Mr. John Smith was established pastor, and
among the others were Mr. Richard Clifton and Mr. John Robinson, two
very excellent and worthy preachers.

In the fall of 1607, Mr. Clifton and many of his church, being
extremely harassed, removed themselves and families to Holland, where,
in the spring of 1608, they were followed by Mr. Robinson and the
rest. They settled first at Amsterdam, where they remained a year;
but finding that Mr. Smith's church, which was there before them, had
fallen into contention with others, they, valuing peace and spiritual
comfort above other riches, removed with Mr. Robinson, their pastor, to
Leyden, Mr. Clifton remaining in Amsterdam, where he soon died.

Soon after their arrival in Leyden, they chose Mr. William Brewster to
assist the pastor, as Elder of the Church. In their new place of abode
they lived in love and harmony with each other, and on friendly terms
of intercourse with their neighbors, till they removed to America.

By the year 1610, many had come over to them from various parts of
England, and they had increased and become a great congregation.

In 1617, Mr. Robinson and his church began to think of emigrating to
America; and, as a preparatory step, sent Mr. Robert Cushman and Mr.
John Carver from Leyden over to England, to treat with the Virginia
Company, and also to see if the King would grant them the liberty of
conscience there, which was refused them in the land of their birth.
Although the agents were not able to obtain from the King their
suit for liberty in religion under the broad seal, as was desired,
nevertheless, they prevailed so far as to gain the connivance of the
King that he would not molest them, provided they carried themselves
peaceably. In 1618, the agents returned to Leyden, to the great
discouragement of the people who sent them; who, notwithstanding,
resolved, in 1619, to send again two agents to agree with the Virginia
Company; and at this time they sent Mr. Cushman a second time, and with
him Mr. William Bradford, who, after long attendance, obtained the
patent granted by the Company to Mr. John Wincob, which was never used.

Notwithstanding all these troubles, so strong was their resolution
to quit Leyden and settle in America, that they entered into an
arrangement with Mr. Thomas Weston, a merchant of London, for their
transportation, and sent Mr. Carver and Mr. Cushman to England, to
receive the money of Mr. Weston, to assist in their transportation,
and to provide for the voyage. By direction, Mr. Cushman went to
London and Mr. Carver to Southampton, where they finally joined with
Mr. William Martin, who had been chosen to assist them.

A vessel of sixty tons, called the Speedwell, was bought and fitted in
Holland, to be used in their transportation, and was designed to be
kept for use in their new country. Mr. Cushman, in June, 1620, also
hired at London the renowned May Flower, a vessel of ninescore tons,
and also Mr. Clarke, the pilot.

Mr. Cushman, having procured the May Flower at London, and fitted it
for the voyage, proceeded in it to Southampton, where he and Captain
Jones, together with the other agents, remained seven days, until the
arrival of the Pilgrims who left Leyden in July, embarking from Delft
Haven.

On the 5th of August, both vessels, the May Flower, Capt. Jones, and
the Speedwell, Capt. Reinolds, set sail from Southampton. The small
vessel proving leaky, they both put in to Dartmouth about the 13th of
August, where they remained till the 21st, when they set sail again.
Both vessels were obliged to return a second time on account of the
leakage of the Speedwell; and this time they put back to Plymouth,
where they gave up the small vessel and dismissed those who were
willing to return to London, Mr. Cushman and his family returning with
them.

On the 6th of September, their number then consisting of one hundred
persons, they made their final start, and arrived at Cape Cod on the
eleventh day of November, when they signed the famous compact, and
landed at Plymouth, in America, on the eleventh day of December, Old
Style, or on the _twenty-first_ of December, _New Style_, in the year
1620.

During their passage, one only died, William Butten, a young man,
servant to Mr. Samuel Fuller, the physician of the new colony, who
was included in Mr. Fuller's family, according to Governor Bradford,
although dead at the time of the signing of the compact.

One person was born during the passage, Oceanus Hopkins, a son of Mr.
Stephen Hopkins, who did not survive long after the landing.

At the commencement of the voyage, the number of passengers of the May
Flower was one hundred, and at the time of the arrival at Cape Cod
Harbor it was the same; one having died, and one having been born, thus
preserving the integrity of the number. Both of these persons, however,
are numbered among the passengers, and hence the number is generally
stated as one hundred and one.

Peregrine White, son of Mr. William White, was born in Cape Cod Harbor,
in November, after the signing of the compact and before the landing,
and is not included with the voyagers. He enjoyed the distinction of
being the first born white child in New England, of the Leyden Pilgrims.

The first child born after the landing on the twenty-second day of
December, 1620, was a son of Mr. Isaac Allerton, but it did not survive
its birth.

The May Flower has already been stated to have been a vessel of about
ninescore tons, and was procured at London by Mr. Robert Cushman, who
was debarred the privilege of coming over with the infant colonists,
as it was necessary that he should remain in England, to keep
together those who were left behind, and to provide for their future
emigration, as he had done for that of those of the first passage. This
he did by procuring the Fortune, and sailing from London in July, 1621,
and arriving in New England on the 9th of November of the same year.
It is also highly probable that he obtained the other early vessels,
as he continued to be the agent of the Pilgrims till his death, which
occurred in England, just as he was ready to come to spend the rest of
his days in New England. In 1624, when the first division of land for
continuance took place, Mr. Cushman, although in England, was placed
at the head of the list of those who came in the May Flower; an act of
justice alike creditable to our forefathers and honorable to him.

The May Flower not only brought over the first of the Leyden Pilgrims,
but also, in the year 1629, with four other vessels, transported Mr.
Higginson and his company to Salem; and in 1630, was one of the fleet
which conveyed to New England Mr. Winthrop and the early settlers of
the Massachusetts Colony.

A vessel bearing this name was owned in England about fifteen years or
more before the voyage of our forefathers; but it would be impossible
to prove or disprove its identity with the renowned May Flower, however
great such a probability might be. It is known, nevertheless, that this
identical famous vessel afterwards hailed from various English ports,
such as London, Yarmouth, and Southampton, and that it was much used in
transporting emigrants to this country. What eventually became of it,
and what was the end of its career, are equally unknown to history.

The following list of passengers is made up from various sources.
By referring to the list of those who signed the compact at Cape
Cod, taken from Governor Bradford's folio manuscript, we know who
signed the compact, and the number of persons in the family of each;
who of the signers brought wives, and who died the first winter. By
the pocket-book of Governor Bradford we know the names and dates of
the deaths of sixteen who died the first season, and how many died
before the arrival of the Fortune, on the 9th of November, 1621. By
an examination of the Old Colony Records, we know to whom land was
assigned in 1624, and what families were extinct at that time; and, as
the families were arranged according to the vessel in which they came,
and an acre was granted to each individual, we know how many were at
that time in each family. Smith has also told us that none of the first
planters died during the three years preceding the close of the year
1624. By the division of cattle, in the year 1627, a record of which
was made at Plymouth, we know every individual who was living at that
date, and the relative age of each person in every family. By wills,
records, and gravestones, we know the ages of many of the Pilgrims and
their children.

From such materials, and with such authorities, the following table
has been constructed; and it is believed, that, although there is a
possibility of the existence of small errors which can never be proved,
the list is entirely or very nearly correct.

In order to save space and unnecessary printing, and to exhibit more
readily for reference some of the most important facts, the following
distinctive marks are made use of.

Those who signed the compact at Cape Cod, on the 11th of November,
1620, are in capitals.

The number in each family is indicated by the Arabic numeral.

Those who brought their wives have this mark, †.

Those who left them for a time in Holland or England are thus
distinguished, ‡.

Those who died before the arrival of the Fortune on the 9th of
November, 1621, have an asterisk, *.

Those who died before the division of cattle in 1627, are in italics.

The dates of those who died the first season are given as taken from
Bradford's pocket-book.

  _JOHN CARVER_, died in April, 1621.                                 †*
  _Mrs. Carver_, (his wife,) died in May, 1621.                       *
  Elizabeth Carver, daughter of Mr. Carver and also wife of John
      Howland.
  _Jasper_, (the boy of Mr. Carver,) died Dec. 6, 1620.               *
      John Howland.
  _Three others of this family died before 1627._                     *   8

  WILLIAM BRADFORD.                                                   †
  _Mrs. Dorothy Bradford_, (his wife,) drowned Dec. 7, 1620.          *   2

  EDWARD WINSLOW.                                                     †
  _Mrs. Elizabeth Winslow_, (his wife,) died March 24, 1620-1.        *
  Edward Winslow, Jr., son of Edward.
  John Winslow, son of Edward.                                            5

  GEORGE SOULE.                                                           1

  WILLIAM BREWSTER.                                                   †
  _Mrs. Brewster_, (his wife.)
  Love Brewster, son of William.
  Wrestling Brewster, son of William.
  Mrs. Lucretia Brewster, wife of Jonathan, the oldest son of Elder
      Brewster.
  William Brewster, son of Jonathan.                                      6

  ISAAC ALLERTON.                                                     †
  _Mrs. Mary Allerton_, (his wife,) died Feb. 25, 1620-1.             *
  Bartholomew Allerton, son of Isaac.
  Remember Allerton, daughter of Isaac.
  Mary Allerton, daughter of Isaac, and also wife of Elder Thomas
  Cushman.
  Sarah Allerton, daughter of Isaac, and also wife of Moses Maverick.     6

  MILES STANDISH.                                                     †
  _Mrs. Rose Standish_, (his wife,) died Jan. 29, 1620-1.             *   2

  JOHN ALDEN.                                                             1

  SAMUEL FULLER.                                                      ‡
  _William Butten_, (his servant,) died Nov. 6, 1620.                 *   2

  _CHRISTOPHER MARTIN_, died Jan. 8, 1620-1.                          †*
  _Mrs. Martin_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                   *
  _Solomon Martin_, son of Christopher, died Dec. 24, 1620.           *
  _One other of this family died the first winter._                   *   4

  _WILLIAM MULLINS_, died Feb. 21, 1620-1.                            †*
  _Mrs. Mullins_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                  *
  Priscilla Mullins, daughter of William, and also wife of John
      Alden.
  _Two others of this family died the first winter._                  *   5

  _WILLIAM WHITE_, died Feb. 21, 1620-1.                              †*
  Mrs. Susanna White, (his wife,) afterwards wife of Governor
      Winslow.
  Resolved White, son of William.
  _William White, Jr._, son of William.
  _Edward Thompson_, died Dec. 4, 1620.                               *   5

  RICHARD WARREN.                                                     ‡   1

  STEPHEN HOPKINS.                                                    †*
  Mrs. Elizabeth Hopkins, (his wife.)
  Constance Hopkins, daughter of Stephen and also wife of Nicholas
      Snow.
  Giles Hopkins, son of Stephen.
  Caleb Hopkins, son of Stephen.
  _Oceanus Hopkins_, son of Stephen, born at sea.                     *

  EDWARD DOTEY.

  _EDWARD LEISTER._                                                       8

  _EDWARD TILLEY_, died the first winter.                             †*
  _Mrs. Tilley_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                   *
  _Two others of this family died the first winter._                  *   4

  _JOHN TILLEY_, died the first winter.                               †*
  _Mrs. Tilley_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                   *
  _One other of this family died the first winter._                   *   3

  FRANCIS COOKE.                                                      ‡
  John Cooke, (called the younger,) son of Francis.                       2

  _THOMAS ROGERS_, died the first winter.                             *
  Joseph Rogers, son of Thomas.                                           2

  _THOMAS TINKER_, died the first winter.                             †*
  _Mrs. Tinker_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                   *
  _One more of this family died the first winter._                    *   3

  _JOHN RIDGDALE_, died the first winter.                             †*
  _Mrs. Ridgdale_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                 *   2

  _EDWARD FULLER_, died the first winter.                             †*
  _Mrs. Fuller_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                   *
  Samuel Fuller, (called the younger,) son of Edward.                     3

  _JOHN TURNER_, died the first winter.                               *
  _Two others of this family died the first winter._                  *   3

  FRANCIS EATON.                                                      †
  _Mrs. Eaton_, (his wife,) died before 1627.
  Samuel Eaton, son of Francis.                                           3

  _JAMES CHILTON_, died Dec. 8, 1620.                                 †*
  _Mrs. Chilton_, (his wife,) died the first winter.                  *
  Mary Chilton, daughter of James and also wife of John Winslow,
      the brother of Edward.                                              3

  _JOHN CRACKSTON_, died the first winter.                            *
  John Crackston, Jr., son of John.                                       2

  JOHN BILLINGTON.                                                    †
  Mrs. Helen Billington, (his wife.)
  Francis Billington, son of John.
  John Billington, Jr., son of John.                                      4

  _MOSES FLETCHER_, died the first winter.                            *   1

  _JOHN GOODMAN._                                                         1

  _DEGORY PRIEST_, died Jan. 1, 1620-1.                               *   1

  _THOMAS WILLIAMS_, died the first winter.                           *   1

  GILBERT WINSLOW, brother of Edward.                                     1

  _EDWARD MARGESON_, died the first winter.                           *   1

  PETER BROWN.                                                            1

  _RICHARD BRITTERIGE_, died Dec. 21, 1620.                           *   1

  _RICHARD CLARKE_, died the first winter.                            *   1

  RICHARD GARDINER.                                                       1

  _JOHN ALLERTON_, (seaman,) died the first winter.                   *   1

  _THOMAS ENGLISH_, (seaman,) died the first winter.                  *   1
                                                                        ---
                           Total,                                       101

The number of deaths of the first planters that occurred from the time
the May Flower left England, to the year 1625, may be thus enumerated:--

  In November, 1620,                  1

  In December,  "                     6

  In January, 1620-1,                 8

  In February,   "                   17

  In March,      "                   13

  In April, 1621,                     1

  In May,    "                        1

  From April 6 to November 9, 1621,   4

  From November 9, 1621, to 1625,     0
                                     --
            Total,                   51

  Of these were,--
    Signers to the Compact,          21
    Wives of the signers,            13
    Known members of the families,
      viz: William Butten, Edward
      Thompson, Jasper, the
      boy, Solomon Martin, and
      Oceanus Hopkins.                5
    Unknown members of the following
      families, viz:
        Of Carver's,             3
        Of Martin's,             1
        Of Mullins's,            2
        Of Edward Tilley's,      2
        Of John Tilley's,        1
        Of Tinker's,             1
        Of Turner's,             2   12
                                     --
            Total,                   51

In the division of land in 1624, Henry Samson and Humilitie Cooper had
land assigned them among those who came in the May Flower, and for
this reason they have been generally believed to have been among the
passengers of that vessel. If such is the case they can be placed in
the family of Mr. Carver better than that of any other. But, as Mr.
Cushman is also placed on that list, it may be reasonably inferred that
others were put there for some other reasons, as perhaps Samson and
Cooper, who are therefore excluded in this account.

John Goodman is marked in Bradford's manuscript as among those who died
the first season. But as his name occurs among those who had garden
lots in 1620, and also in the division of land in 1623, it must be
inferred that he was marked by mistake, or else Mr. Prince committed an
error in taking his copy for the Annals.

Three of the wives of the signers were left in Europe; namely,
Bridgett, the wife of Dr. Samuel Fuller, Hester, the wife of Francis
Cooke, and Elizabeth, the wife of Richard Warren. These afterwards came
over in the Ann, in 1623.

Five lost their wives and married again; namely, William Bradford,
who married widow Alice Southworth; Edward Winslow, who married
widow Susanna White; Isaac Allerton, who married Fear Brewster, and
afterwards, Joanna ----; Miles Standish, who married Barbara ----; and
Francis Eaton, who married Christian Penn.

Others were married for the first time; namely, John Howland and
Elizabeth Carver; George Soule and Mary; Love Brewster and Sarah
Collier; John Alden and Priscilla Mullins; Resolved White and Judith
Vassal; Giles Hopkins and Catherine Wheldon; Edward Dotey and Faith
Clarke; John Cooke and Sarah Warren; Samuel Eaton and Martha Billington.

Several of the Pilgrims had children born in New England, an account of
whom may form another article at some future time.




MAJOR PENDLETON'S LETTER.

Copy of a letter from Major Brian Pendleton to the "Honored Governor
and Counsell for the Matacusets at Boston," occasioned by the attack of
the Indians on Casco, Me.


  "Honored Governor
        together with the Counsell,

    I am sorry my pen must be the messenger of soe greate a
    Tragedye. On the 11th of this instant wee heard of many killed
    of our naybors in falmouth or Casco-Bay: and on the 12th
    instant Mr. Joslin sent me a briefe letter written from under
    the hands of Mr. Burras[24] the minister. Hee gives an acct of
    32 killed and carried away by the Indians: himselfe escaped to
    an Island, but I hope Black poynt men have fetched him of by
    this time. 10 men 6 women and 16 children. Anthony a[n]d Thomas
    B[r]a[c]ket and Mr. Munjoy his sonne onely are named. I had not
    time to coppye the letter, persons beinge to goe post to Major
    Walden; but I hope he hath before this sent the originall to
    you. How soon it will be our portion wee know not. The Lord in
    mercy fit us for death and direct the harts and hands to ackt
    and doe wt is most needfull in such a time of distress as this.
    Thus in haste I commit you to Pvdounce of our Lord God and
    desire Your prayers also for us. Yours in all humility to sarve
    in

  "Winter Harbor at night  }     the Lord,
  the 13 of August, 1676." }                            BRIAN PENDLETON."


FOOTNOTES:

[24] Rev. George Burroughs.




CAPT. MILES STANDISH'S INVENTORY OF BOOKS.

The following books are mentioned in the Inventory of the goods of
Capt. Miles Standish, as they were shewn to the Appraisers, John Alden
and James Cudworth, Dec. 2, 1656. The account is here given as found in
the Inventory.


                                                              _£_ _s._ _d._
  The History of the World and the Turkish History             01  10  00
  A Chronical of England and the Country Farmer                00  08  00
  Yᵉ History of Queen Elizabeth. the State of Europe           01  10  00
  Doctor Hall's workes. Calvin's Institutions                  01  04  00
  Wilcocke's Workes and Mayors                                 01  00  00
  Rogers Seaven Treatises and the French Akademy               00  12  00
  3 old Bibles                                                 00  14  00
  Cesers Comentarys.  Bariffe's Artillery                      00  10  00
  Prestons Sermons.  Burroughes Christian Contentment,       }
      Gospell Conversation                                   } 01  04  00
  Passions of the mind. The Phisitions practice              }
  Burroughs Earthly mindedness. Burroughs discoveries        }
  Ball on Faith--Brinly Watch, Dod on the Lord's supper      }
  Sparks against heresie--Davenports Apology                 } 00  10  00
  A reply to Dr. Cotton on Baptisme--the Garman History--The }
  Sweden Intelligencer--Reason discused                      } 00  10  00
  1 Testament--1 Psalme Booke--nature and grace in conflict  }
  A law Booke--The meane in Mourning Allegations Johnson     } 00  06  00
        against hearing                                      }
  A parcel of old Bookes upon diverse subjects in 4to          00  14  00
  Another parcel in Octavo                                     00  05  00
  Wilsons Dixonary. Homer's Illiad, a Commentarie on James   }
        Ball's Catechesme                                    } 00  12  00




NOTICES OF THE COURTS OF JUDICATURE AND OF THE BAR OF THE COUNTY OF
MERRIMACK, NEW HAMPSHIRE.

BY STEPHEN COLBY BADGER, ESQ., OF CONCORD.[25]


The History of the Courts in New Hampshire, including an account of the
various systems of Judicature from time to time, has been published in
an article contained in the American Quarterly Register, Vol. XII.,
prepared by Francis Cogswell, Esq., of Dover, and in Articles contained
in the New Hampshire Repository, Vols. I. and II., prepared by William
Butterfield, Esq., of Gilmanton, Hon. Samuel D. Bell of Manchester, and
the Hon. John Kelly of Exeter, N. H. Nothing further need be said on
this subject.

The County of Merrimack, by an act of the Legislature, passed in 1823,
was formed from the Counties of Hillsborough and Rockingham, with the
exception of a part of the town of Franklin, which was taken from
Sanbornton, then in Stratford County, now in the County of Belknap. It
contains twenty-four towns.

The Counties of Hillsborough and Merrimack compose the Second Judicial
District for the transaction of business of the Superior Court, and
Courts are held annually at Concord on the second Tuesday of July, and
at Amherst on the second Tuesday of December.

The following list of Judges, County Officers and Members of the Bar,
include those who resided within the limits of the County of Merrimack
before its formation, and also those who have resided within the County
since it was formed.


JUDGES OF THE SUPERIOR COURT OF JUDICATURE.

  Column Headings:

  A: _Name._
  B: _Residence._
  C: _Place of Birth._
  D: _Com._
  E: _End._
  F: _General Remarks._

  ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
       A   |     B    |     C      |   D   |  E  |            F
  ---------+----------+------------+-------+-----+---------------------------
  Arthur   |Holderness|Londonderry |   1799| 1816|Chief Justice from 1809 to
  Livermore|          |            |       |     |1813. Attorney at Concord
           |          |            |       |     |and Chester, Rep. from
           |          |            |       |     |Chester and Campton,
           |          |            |       |     |Senator, Mem. Cong. 1817 to
           |          |            |       |     |1821 and 1823 to 1825.
           |          |            |       |     |Justice from 1799 to 1809
           |          |            |       |     |and from 1813 to 1816, and
           |          |            |       |     |Chief Justice State C. C.
           |          |            |       |     |P., from 1825 to 1833.
  Samuel   |Concord   |Concord     |   1819| 1840|Read Law with Peter Green
  Green    |          |            |       |     |and Jeremiah Rawson,
           |          |            |       |     |commenced practice 1793.
           |          |            |       |     |Attorney at Concord,
           |          |            |       |     |Representative, Solicitor.
           |          |            |       |     |Resides now in the City of
           |          |            |       |     |Washington.
  John     |Hopkinton |Harvard, Ms.|   1823| 1833|H. C. 1791. Read Law with
  Harris   |          |            |       |     |Simeon Strong and Timothy
           |          |            |       |     |Bigelow, Attorney, Judge
           |          |            |       |     |Probate, Hillsborough Co.,
           |          |            |       |     |from 1812 to 1823, also in
           |          |            |       |     |Merrimack Co., from Aug. 5,
           |          |            |       |     |1823 to Oct. 7, 1843.
           |          |            |       |     |Solicitor from 1817 to
           |          |            |       |     |1823. Died in 1845.
  Nathaniel|Concord   |Rochester   |Jan. 8,|Nov. |D. C. 1820. Read Law with
  G. Upham |          |            |  1833 | 1842|Hon. David Barker, Jr., in
           |          |            |       |     |Rochester, Attorney at
           |          |            |       |     |Bristol and Concord, Agent
           |          |            |       |     |of Concord Rail Road
           |          |            |       |     |Corporation. Son of Hon.
           |          |            |       |     |Nathaniel Upham.


JUDGES OF THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.

  Jeremiah |Dunbarton |            |   1776|     |A Justice in Hillsborough
  Page     |          |            |       |     |County.
  Timothy  |Concord   |Concord     |   1777| 1809|Son of Rev. Timothy Walker,
  Walker   |          |            |       |     |born June 26, 1737,
           |          |            |       |     |graduated at H. C. 1756,
           |          |            |       |     |qualified himself for the
           |          |            |       |     |Ministry, but relinquished
           |          |            |       |     |the profession, Chief
           |          |            |       |     |Justice of C. C. P. for
           |          |            |       |     |Rockingham Co., Counsellor
           |          |            |       |     |from 1777 to 1799. Died May
           |          |            |       |     |5, 1822, a. 85.
  Abiel    |Canterbury|Andover     |   1784| 1789|H. C. 1756. Justice of
  Foster   |          |            |       |     |Rockingham Co. Rep. in
           |          |            |       |     |Cong. from 1789 to 1791 and
           |          |            |       |     |from 1795 to 1803. Died in
           |          |            |       |     |1806, a. 71.
  Ebenezer |Salisbury |Kingston    |   1791| 1806|Rep. from Salisbury,
  Webster  |          |            |       |     |Senator. Died in 1816, a.
           |          |            |       |     |77.
           |          |            |       |     |
  Robert   |Henniker  |Londonderry |   1803| 1813|Counsellor from 1788 to
  Wallace  |          |            |       |     |1789, and from 1790 to
           |          |            |       |     |1803. Died 1815, a. 65.


JUSTICE OF THE CIRCUIT COURT OF COMMON PLEAS, FIRST DISTRICT.

  Joshua    |Henniker   |Hopkinton    |1816|1821|D. C. 1794. Chief Justice of
  Darling   |           |             |    |    |the Court of Sessions from
            |           |             |    |    |1821 to 1823, Sen., and
            |           |             |    |    |President. Died May 16,
            |           |             |    |    |1842.


JUSTICES OF THE COURT OF SESSIONS.

  Hall      |Allenstown |New Market   |1823|1825|He was Chief Justice, Rep.
  Burgin    |           |             |    |    |from Allenstown, moved to
            |           |             |    |    |Concord.
  Israel W. |Concord    |Goffstown    |1823|1825|Sheriff of Hillsborough Co.
  Kelley    |           |             |    |    |from 1814 to 1819. Marshal
            |           |             |    |    |of District Court, Crier in
            |           |             |    |    |S. Court of Jud. Resided in
            |           |             |    |    |Salisbury till within a few
            |           |             |    |    |years past, and now resides
            |           |             |    |    |in Concord.
  Peter     |Northfield |Gilmanton    |1823|1825|Rep. from Northfield. Crier
  Wadleigh  |           |             |    |    |in C. C. P.


JUDGES OF THE PRESENT COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.

  Benjamin  |Sutton     |Sutton       |1833|    |Representative from Sutton.
  Wadleigh  |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Aaron     |Pembroke   |Pembroke     |1833|1844|Representative from
  Whittemore|           |             |    |    |Pembroke.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Jacob A.  |Concord    |Concord      |1844|    |
  Potter    |           |             |    |    |


SHERIFFS.

  Israel W. |Concord    |Goffstown    |1814|1819|See Justices of the Court of
  Kelley    |           |             |    |    |Sessions.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Richard H.|Manchester |Concord      |1823|1828|Resided in Hooksett till
  Ayer      |           |             |    |    |within a few months past.
            |           |             |    |    |Senator from 1818 to 1823,
            |           |             |    |    |Rep. from Hooksett several
            |           |             |    |    |years. Counsellor.
  Jacob B.  |Washington,|Andover      |1828|1833|Editor of several
  Moore     |D.C.       |             |    |    |newspapers, Register of
            |           |             |    |    |Deeds, Rep. from Concord,
            |           |             |    |    |Clerk P. O. Depart.,
            |           |             |    |    |Washington.
  Arlond    |Albany,    |Hampton      |1833|1838|Rep. from Pittsfield.
  Carroll   |N. Y.      |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Benjamin  |Warner     |Newburyport, |1838|1842|Rep. from Warner several
  Evans     |           |Ms.          |    |    |years. Senator, Counsellor
            |           |             |    |    |1837 and 1838. Born Jan. 25,
            |           |             |    |    |1772, died Nov. 12, 1844.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Richard   |Concord    |Tuftonborough|1842|1847|
  Pinkham   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Nathaniel |Sutton     |Sutton       |1847|    |
  A. Davis  |           |             |    |    |


CLERKS OF THE SUPERIOR COURT.

  Moses     |Salisbury  |Salisbury    |1823|1838|D. C. 1794. Practised in
  Eastman   |           |             |    |    |Salisbury from 1797 to 1826,
            |           |             |    |    |Clerk of C. C. P. in
            |           |             |    |    |Hillsborough from 1816 to
            |           |             |    |    |1823, Clerk of C. C. P. in
            |           |             |    |    |Merrimack from 1823 to 1833.
            |           |             |    |    |Moved to Ms.
  Stephen C.|Concord    |Warner       |1838|1846|D. C. 1823. Practised Law
  Badger    |           |             |    |    |and also was P. Master at
            |           |             |    |    |New London from 1826 to
            |           |             |    |    |1833. Clerk of C. C. P. in
            |           |             |    |    |1833. Resumed practice of
            |           |             |    |    |Law in 1846. Acting Pension
            |           |             |    |    |Agent.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Nathaniel |Concord    |Henniker     |1846|    |H. C. 1839. Admitted as
  B. Baker  |           |             |    |    |Attorney, March 7, 1842.


CLERKS OF THE COURT OF COMMON PLEAS.

  Moses     |Salisbury  |Salisbury    |1816|1823|In Hillsborough County.
  Eastman   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Moses     |Salisbury  |Salisbury    |1823|1833|In Merrimack County. See
  Eastman   |           |             |    |    |Clerks of Superior Court.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Stephen   |Concord    |Warner       |1833|1846|See Clerks of Superior
  C. Badger |           |             |    |    |Court.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Nathaniel |Concord    |Henniker     |1846|    |See Clerks of Superior
  P. Baker  |           |             |    |    |Court.


CLERKS OF THE COURT OF SESSIONS.

  Enoch     |Henniker   |Hampstead    |1821|1823|In the old County of
  Darling   |           |             |    |    |Hillsborough.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Philip    |Concord    |Concord      |1823|1825|Son of Dr. Philip Carrigain,
  Carrigain |           |             |    |    |Secretary of State, N. H.,
            |           |             |    |    |from 1805 to 1809. He
            |           |             |    |    |prepared a Map of New
            |           |             |    |    |Hampshire in 1816, was Clerk
            |           |             |    |    |of Senate for several years,
            |           |             |    |    |and also practised Law in
            |           |             |    |    |Epsom and Chichester. D. C.
            |           |             |    |    |1794.


REGISTERS OF DEEDS.

  Jacob B.  |Concord    |Andover      |1825|1827|See Sheriffs.
  Moore     |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Samuel    |Concord    |Concord      |1828|1833|
  Cofran    |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  John      |Concord    |Ipswich, Ms. |1833|1836|Commenced practice in 1817
  Whipple   |           |             |    |    |in a part of Dunbarton,
            |           |             |    |    |afterward incorporated into
            |           |             |    |    |Hooksett, remaining there
            |           |             |    |    |till 1822, in Hopkinton till
            |           |             |    |    |1833. Solicitor of Merrimack
            |           |             |    |    |Co., Dep. Secretary of New
            |           |             |    |    |Hampshire. D. C. 1812.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Joseph    |Concord    |Concord      |1836|1837|D. C. 1825. Post Master.
  Robinson  |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  John      |Salisbury  |Chester      |1837|1839|
  Townsend  |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Mitchell  |Concord    |Warner       |1839|1845|
  Gilmore,  |           |             |    |    |
  Jr.       |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Reuben T. |Concord    |             |1845|    |
  Leavitt   |           |             |    |    |


JUDGES OF PROBATE.

  John      |Hopkinton  |Harvard, Ms. |1812|1823|See Judges of Superior
  Harris    |           |             |    |    |Court.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Samuel    |Concord    |Epping       |1823|1828|Physician. Treasurer of the
  Morril    |           |             |    |    |N. H. Savings Bank,
            |           |             |    |    |Secretary of the Merr. Co.
            |           |             |    |    |Mut. Fire Ins. Co., State
            |           |             |    |    |Treasurer.
  Boswell   |Pembroke   |Pomfret, Ct. |1828|1833|Rep. from Pembroke. D. C.
  Stevens   |           |             |    |    |1804.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Horace    |Hopkinton  |Unity        |1833|    |Practised in Goshen from
  Chase     |           |             |    |    |1817 to 1821. Rep. from
            |           |             |    |    |Hopkinton, 1829. Post Master
            |           |             |    |    |at Hopkinton, 1829. D. C.
            |           |             |    |    |1814.


REGISTERS OF PROBATE.

  Henry B.  |Warner     |Brookfield,  |1823|1839|Rep. from Warner, 1816,
  Chase     |           |Ms.          |    |    |1817, and 1823, Speaker in
            |           |             |    |    |1817. Bank Com. 1846. M. A.
            |           |             |    |    |at D. C. 1823.
  James     |Franklin   |Sanbornton   |1839|1844|Rep. from Sanbornton,
  Clark     |           |             |    |    |Senator?
            |           |             |    |    |
  Joseph    |Concord    |Concord      |1844|1845|D. C. 1825. Rep. from
  Robinson  |           |             |    |    |Concord and P. Master.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Calvin    |Concord    |Littleton    |1845|1845|Practised in Littleton from
  Ainsworth |           |             |    |    |1835 to 1843.


COUNTY TREASURERS.

  William   |Greenland  |             |1825|1830|State Treasurer, Dep. Sec.
  Pickering |           |             |    |    |of State, Collector of
            |           |             |    |    |Customs at Portsmouth, Rep.
            |           |             |    |    |from Greenland.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Jonathan  |Concord    |             |1830|1833|
  Eastman   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  James     |Northfield |             |1833|1835|
  Cochran   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Jonathan  |Concord    |             |1835|1837|
  Eastman   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  David M.  |Chichester |             |1837|1839|Rep. from Chichester.
  Carpenter |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  William   |Pembroke   |             |1839|1841|
  Knox      |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Caleb     |Franklin   |             |1841|1843|
  Merrill   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  True      |Salisbury  |             |1843|1845|Dep. Sheriff.
  George    |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  George    |Concord    |             |1845|    |D. C. 1828. Practised Law in
  Minot     |           |             |    |    |Gilmanton and Bristol,
            |           |             |    |    |Cashier of Mechanics Bank,
            |           |             |    |    |U. S. Pension Agent.


SOLICITORS IN THE OLD COUNTY OF HILLSBOROUGH.

  Thomas W. |Salisbury  |Newbury, Ms. |1802|1809|H. C. 1786. Practised in
  Thompson  |           |             |    |    |Salisbury from 1790 to 1810,
            |           |             |    |    |Concord to 1819. Rep. and
            |           |             |    |    |Speaker 1813 and 1814. Rep.
            |           |             |    |    |in Cong. 1805 to 1807, Sen.
            |           |             |    |    |in Cong. 1814 to 1817, State
            |           |             |    |    |Treasurer. Died 1819, aged
            |           |             |    |    |54.
  Baruch    |Hopkinton  |Sutton, Ms.  |1809|1812|D. C. 1786. Practised in
  Chase     |           |             |    |    |Hopkinton, and died since
            |           |             |    |    |1840.
  Parker    |Franklin   |South Hampton|1812|1817|D. C. 1796. Practised in
  Noyes     |           |             |    |    |Warner, from 1801 to 1803,
            |           |             |    |    |in Franklin from 1803, Rep.
            |           |             |    |    |from Franklin, appointed
            |           |             |    |    |Judge S. C., but declined
            |           |             |    |    |accepting.
  John      |Hopkinton  |Harvard, Ms. |1817|1823|See Judges of Superior
  Harris    |           |             |    |    |Court.


SOLICITORS IN THE OLD COUNTY OF ROCKINGHAM.

  E. St. L. |Concord    |Londonderry  |1791|1793|Son of Judge Samuel
  Livermore |           |             |    |    |Livermore, Attorney at
            |           |             |    |    |Concord, 1783, Portsmouth,
            |           |             |    |    |Newburyport, and Boston.
            |           |             |    |    |Mem. Cong. Ms., Judge of
            |           |             |    |    |Superior Court, N. H. M. A.
            |           |             |    |    |at D. C. 1800.
  Charles   |Concord    |Concord      |1806|1808|H. C. 1789. P. M. at Concord
  Walker    |           |             |    |    |in 1801. Died July 29, 1834,
            |           |             |    |    |aged 68.
  Samuel    |Concord    |Concord      |1812|1819|See Judges of Superior
  Green     |           |             |    |    |Court.
            |           |             |    |    |
  Jonathan  |Epsom      |Peterborough |1821|1823|W. C. 1811. Practised at
  Steele    |           |             |    |    |Epsom.


SOLICITORS IN THE NEW COUNTY OF MERRIMACK.

  Artemas   |Henniker   |Billerica,   |1823|1833|H. C. 1809. Practised in
  Rogers    |           |Ms.          |    |    |Henniker from 1813 to 1832,
            |           |             |    |    |Rep. 1822 and 1823. Resides
            |           |             |    |    |now in New York.
            |           |             |    |    |
  John      |Concord    |Ipswich, Ms. |1833|1843|See Registers of Deeds.
  Whipple   |           |             |    |    |
            |           |             |    |    |
  Moses     |Pittsfield |Pittsfield   |1843|1843|D. C. 1828. Practised at
  Norris,   |           |             |    |    |Barnstead, Rep. from
  Jr.       |           |             |    |    |Pittsfield, Speaker of the
            |           |             |    |    |House, Counsellor. Rep. in
            |           |             |    |    |Cong.
  Asa P.    |Northfield |Sanbornton   |1843|    |Rep. from Northfield, 1839,
  Cate      |           |             |    |    |1840, Sen. 1844, President
            |           |             |    |    |Sen. 1845. M. A. at D. C.
            |           |             |    |    |1844.

                          (To be concluded.)

FOOTNOTES:

[25] In preparing this article, assistance was rendered by Moody Kent,
Esq.




BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES OF DECEASED PHYSICIANS IN MASSACHUSETTS.

BY EBENEZER ALDEN, M. D.


To the Editor of the New England Historical and Genealogical Register.

  DEAR SIR,

    In accordance with your suggestion, I propose to send you
    occasionally for publication, as your limits may permit, brief
    notices and reminiscences of Physicians, who have lived in
    Massachusetts.

    The plan of your Periodical requires that such notices should
    be brief; and I shall usually refer your readers to the sources
    of information, from which my materials have been obtained, so
    as to facilitate the investigations of those who may wish in
    any case to make still further inquiries.

    Perhaps no class of public men is so little known to the
    community beyond the limited circle of professional pursuits,
    as physicians. Their life is one of incessant confinement,
    anxiety, and toil. A portion of their labors, as large as from
    one fourth to one third, is gratuitous. To them, if to no
    others, it is an abiding truth, _The poor always ye have with
    you_. It is exceedingly rare even in cities, still more so in
    the country, to find a physician of honorable standing with
    his fellows, who has acquired great wealth as the fruit of
    professional service. Having food and raiment, he must learn
    therewith to be content. Nevertheless, physicians find abundant
    sources of enjoyment in the sympathy and kindness of many
    attached friends; and it is believed, that, according to the
    measure of their ability, they are not behind the average of
    their fellow-citizens in works of philanthropy and benevolence.
    In the war of the Revolution they were fully represented in
    the senate-house, and on the battle-field; and the names of
    Prescott, Holton, Thomas, Brooks, and Warren, with many others,
    will go down to posterity, no less honored as statesmen and
    patriots, than as eminent members of the medical profession.

    It is pleasant to recall the virtues of such men; to know where
    they lived; who were their associates; how they performed the
    duties of social life; what obstacles they encountered and what
    rewards they obtained; and to hold forth their example to the
    younger members of the profession and especially to those just
    about to enter it, as a practical illustration of the great
    truth, that a life perseveringly devoted to the good of others,
    even under the most discouraging circumstances, will ultimately
    secure the public confidence, and meet its reward.

                          Respectfully, yours.



1.--DR. ERASTUS SERGEANT, SENIOR, OF STOCKBRIDGE.

The following Notice of a distinguished physician and worthy man is
copied, with little alteration, from a letter addressed to myself by
Dr. Oliver Partridge, in December, 1841, when he was over ninety years
of age.

DR. ERASTUS SERGEANT was born at Stockbridge, August 7, 1742, and died
November 14, 1814, aged 72.

He was the son of Rev. John Sergeant, the first missionary to the
Indians on the Housatonic River, who was born in Newark, N. J., in
1710; graduated at Yale College in 1729; was there a Tutor four years,
and, having a great desire to be a missionary to the Aborigines, went
to Litchfield, in 1733, where some English people had settled; procured
a guide and went on foot forty miles further through the wilderness,
to the Indians, where he met a cordial reception. He then returned to
New Haven, resigned his Tutorship, and, having made the necessary
preparations, went back in 1734, and commenced his mission.

In 1735 Gov. Dudley appointed a meeting of the Indians on business at
Deerfield, where the Rev. John Sergeant was ordained as their minister,
and he with Mr. Timothy Woodbridge as schoolmaster, (afterwards Hon.
Timothy W.,) went to spend their lives with the Indians.

The Rev. Mr. Sergeant married Abigail, the daughter of Col. Ephraim
Williams, of Newton, near Boston, one of the chosen six who had farms
allotted them across our pleasant hill, to be society for the two
missionaries.

Mr. Sergeant died in 1749, in the midst of his usefulness, a most
amiable man and greatly lamented. He left three children: Erastus,
the subject of this memoir; Electa, who married Col. Mark Hopkins of
Great Barrington, and was grandmother to the two brothers, Mark and
Albert Hopkins, the former the President and the latter a Professor at
Williams College; and John, the fourth missionary to the said Indians,
who removed with them in 1788, then being about four hundred and fifty
in number, to Oneida County, N. Y., and there died.

Their mother married for her second husband, Gen. Joseph Dwight of
Great Barrington, who then had five children, and by her he had two
more, from whom our Dwights and Sedgwicks are descended,--and their
mother became again a widow.

Notwithstanding the difficulties of the war with the French and Indians
of Canada, and the residing on the frontier with the care of his, hers,
and their children, by the influence and assistance of their friends,
Erastus was prepared for college, and spent two years at Princeton, N.
J., before the circumstances of the family required his return.

In 1761 he went to live with his uncle, Dr. Thomas Williams of
Deerfield, and was there about three years in the study and practice
of medicine. In January, 1765, he commenced the practice of physic in
Stockbridge. The towns in the vicinity were then but partially settled,
and not supplied with physicians, so that he soon had much business.
Several severe cases of comminuted fracture, successfully treated by
him, served to extend his fame, and, in a short time his advice was
much sought, and in surgical cases he became the principal operator
within a circle of thirty miles diameter; and his usefulness was
continued until Dr. Jones and others succeeded him in business.

He was endowed with sound judgment and skill in his profession; was
sedate, kind, very charitable and benevolent, with a large share of the
Christian graces, and truly was the "_beloved physician_." More than
twenty young men studied medicine under his direction.

It was said of him, that no one ever spoke ill of him from his youth
up. He was an important member and deacon in the Rev. Dr. West's
church. He received a Master's degree at Yale College in 1784; was
elected a Fellow of the Massachusetts Medical Society in 1785; was a
Justice of the Peace, and a Major in the South Regiment of the County;
and was obliged to keep garrison with the Regiment at Lake Champlain,
from December, 1776, to April, 1777, and to perform other services in
troublesome times, until Burgoyne's surrender.

Some years before his death he was afflicted with symptoms of pulmonary
disease, which were much aggravated by his incessant attention to his
daughter, who died of consumption. In September of 1814 he visited the
"springs," in company with Dr. Partridge, without benefit, indeed, to
his injury; for it was with difficulty that he returned, on account
of his increasing weakness. The day before his death, he had so far
recruited that he rode to Lee on horseback, visited his son's family,
and returned, not complaining of fatigue. The day he died, he was
abroad in the morning. Dr. Partridge adds, "Two friends called on us
from New York, and as we sat at dinner, in social conversation, Dr.
Sergeant suddenly rose, and a stream of blood issued from his mouth. I
instantly sprang to him, and he fell lifeless into my arms, without a
gasp. Thus expired my dear friend, under whose roof I had resided from
my twentieth year, then forty three and a half years, and more than
forty of them harmoniously visiting each other's patients, as necessary
to their satisfaction and our accommodation."

Dr. P. adds, "_natus fui_, April 15, 1751."


II.--DR. HORATIO JONES OF STOCKBRIDGE.

This able and distinguished physician, the pupil and associate of Dr.
Sergeant, (No. I.,) was the son of Capt. Josiah Jones, and grandson of
Mr. Josiah Jones, who, in 1737, emigrated from Weston with Col. Ephraim
Williams of Newton, and settled with their families in Stockbridge.
This sacrifice they cheerfully made, with the benevolent intention
of aiding the mission, then recently commenced among the Housatonic
Indians.

DR. JONES was born at Stockbridge, in 1770. In early youth he
manifested the same energy and decision of character for which he was
so much distinguished in riper years. Having commenced his collegiate
education at Yale College with flattering prospects; and, perhaps,
in his ambition to excel, pursuing his studies with an intensity of
application disproportionate to his power of endurance, his health
became impaired, and he was attacked with a disease in his eyes, which
threatened a total loss of sight. In these circumstances, in accordance
with the recommendation of his medical advisers, he for a time entirely
relinquished his literary pursuits.

Instead of yielding to hopeless despondency, however, he determined to
pursue an active life; and substituting a knapsack for his classics, he
went with a company of surveyors to the Genesee country, New York, to
assist in laying out lands. He was thus exposed to all the hardships
incident to that mode of life, camping out in the wilderness, living
upon the coarsest fare, and not unfrequently making a hollow log his
lodging place for the night.

In due time he recovered his health and sight, and once more resumed
his studies, but not at college. Placing himself under the instruction
of Dr. Sergeant in his native town, he completed the usual term of
medical pupilage. At a subsequent period he attended a course of
medical lectures at Philadelphia.

He first commenced the practice of his profession at Pittsfield, where
he was much respected. But at length finding, as he expressed it, that
there were _more physicians than business_ in that place, he determined
to remove. His decision being known to Dr. Sergeant, then advancing
in life, who was desirous of finding some suitable person to take
his place as an operating surgeon, he with his friend Dr. Partridge
earnestly solicited Dr. Jones to settle in Stockbridge. With this
invitation he eventually complied, and while he lived, the medical
intercourse of the three physicians was most harmonious.

Under these auspices he was soon introduced into a wide circle of
business, not only in Stockbridge, but in all the neighboring towns.
His reputation was not ephemeral, but constantly increased, as he
advanced in life; and his advice was much sought and highly appreciated
by his medical brethren. In 1804 he was elected a Fellow of the
Massachusetts Medical Society, and in 1810 received from Williams
College the honorary degree of M. A.

Such was Dr. Jones,--a man possessed of rare endowments, and eminent in
his profession. In the language of Dr. Partridge, from whom most of the
facts relating to him have been obtained, "he was a good operator in
surgery, active, pleasant, social, very popular, and indefatigable by
night and by day to give relief in cases of distress and danger."

In the winter of 1812-13, an alarming and fatal epidemic prevailed
extensively in New England. During its prevalence, Dr. Jones was
incessantly occupied in attendance upon the sick. At length the
fears of his friends respecting him were realized. He was suddenly
prostrated, and, after an illness of only eight days, he died, April
26, 1813, aged 43 years.

His funeral was attended by a great concourse of persons from
Stockbridge and the adjoining towns. The Rev. Dr. Hyde of Lee, who
preached his funeral sermon, from Job xix: 21, speaks of his death as a
public calamity. "Rarely," says he, "has the town, or even the county,
experienced a greater shock in the death of a citizen. His removal in
the midst of his usefulness is an unspeakable loss to the community."

His death is represented to have been eminently peaceful. Although he
had not made a public profession of his faith, he experienced a great
change in his religious feelings during the winter preceding his death.
He gave to those who best knew him, satisfactory evidence of piety.

In his intercourse with his medical brethren, he was courteous and
unassuming. All the duties of domestic and social life he discharged
with fidelity and acceptance. His mind was well balanced and highly
cultivated. He sympathized in the most unaffected manner with the sick
who sought his aid, and by his kindness and gentleness alleviated the
sufferings and won the affections of his patients, even in those cases
where medical and surgical skill could afford only a temporary and
partial relief.

Extracts from the sermon of Dr. Hyde were published in the tenth
volume of the Panoplist; also, an interesting notice of his death and
character, by Rev. Jared Curtis, in the Farmer's Herald. See also a
memoir recently prepared and published by Dr. S. S. Williams, in his
Medical Biography, a work which cannot fail to interest the medical
reader, and is an able sequel to the volumes of the late Dr. Thatcher
on the same subject.


III.--DR. ANDREW MACKIE OF WAREHAM.

DR. MACKIE was the son of Dr. John Mackie, who came from Scotland,
and settled at Southampton, L. I. He was born at Southampton in
1742; studied medicine with his father, and settled as a physician
at Wareham, Ms., where, for many years, he had an extensive practice
in medicine and surgery. He also had the reputation of having been
unusually successful in the treatment of the smallpox.

He was a devoted and active Christian, a member of the church, and for
many years he sustained the office of a deacon.

He had ten children, of whom four sons and three daughters lived to
adult age. Three of his sons studied medicine. 1. John, who graduated
at Brown University in 1800, received the degree of M. D., and settled
at Providence, R. I., where he died, in February, 1833, at the age
of 52 years. He was eminent as a surgeon. 2. Peter, a Fellow of the
Massachusetts Medical Society, now a physician at Wareham. 3. Andrew,
from whom the above-named facts were obtained, born in 1799, graduated
at Brown University, 1814, and received the degree of M. D., 1817. He
first settled at Plymouth, but is now a physician of good reputation in
New Bedford, and is a Fellow of the Massachusetts Medical Society.

Dr. Mackie, the particular subject of this notice, died at Wareham, of
a pulmonary disease, April, 1817, aged 75.


JOHN LEVERETT, WILLIAM BRATTLE AND JAMES OLIVER.

These three distinguished scholars of New England were all born in
Boston, educated at the same school, admitted into Harvard College the
same year, took their degrees at the same time, [1680,] all settled
in Cambridge, one an attorney at law, one a clergyman, and the other
a physician, and all eminent in their professions. The first two were
Fellows of the Royal Society in England.




EXTRACT FROM A LETTER OF HON. WILLIAM CRANCH OF WASHINGTON, D. C.


The following is an extract from a letter of Judge Cranch to the Editor.

"Among some old papers of my father, I found a letter from the Rev.
William Clark, dated Quincy, Aug. 10, 1803, in which he says, 'Mr.
William Winthrop of Cambridge has, for some time past, been engaged
in a pursuit rather extraordinary, viz., to investigate the following
particulars of every one who has received a degree at Harvard College,
from the first foundation of that University in 1648 to the present
time; viz., the origination or where born, his professional business or
employment, his place of residence, time of his death and age; also any
thing remarkable in their lives and characters; where such matters can
be ascertained.' Again, Mr. Clark says, 'In his (Mr. Winthrop's) next
letter he opened his design to me; and with respect to the clergy in
particular, when the Catalogue was printed in 1797, the whole number of
graduates then being 3533, of which number those who had been, or then
were, settled ministers of the Gospel amounted to 1121; of this number,
he informed me he had ascertained the places of settlement, and other
particulars of 1117, so that there were but 4 remaining unascertained,
viz., _John Mors_, 1692--_Joseph Gerrish_, 1700--_Noyes Paris_,
1721--of these 2 last, however, he gives some proof, that he was not
wholly destitute of some intelligence about them. But what is most
surprising was, that of the 4 above mentioned unascertained persons,
myself brought up the rear! He had never heard where I officiated
before the revolution, though it was no further from him than _Dedham_,
where I lived ten years!--I wrote him fully of myself, and various
others, whom he has since desired information of; only there were 2
of the last mentioned, that I knew very little about, whose names I
mentioned to you: viz., whether _Cornelius Nye_, who graduated in 1718,
was not the same person who was a schoolmaster in Braintree, and who
was somewhat distinguished for his witty talents? If so, did he ever
pursue any other employment than keeping school? _Shepard Fisk_, who
graduated in 1721, and lived at Braintree, his employment, decease and
age? If you could without inconvenience to yourself, collect any thing
certain of these 2 persons, or either of them, and put it in writing
and send it to me, it would be thankfully received. I expect to have
occasion to write to Mr. Winthrop shortly, and should be happy to
transmit any thing so agreeable to him, as any discovery of this kind,
whose mind seems to be intensely fixed on this pursuit.'

"Mr. Clark afterwards sent to my father the following extracts from Mr.
Winthrop's letter to him, dated Oct. 10, 1803.

"'I feel myself greatly obliged to you, as well as to Judge Cranch,
(Judge Richard Cranch,) for the information contained in your last
letter with its inclosures. I have long since heard of that gentleman's
researches into the antiquities of this country, and conclude he must
be possessed of a large fund of information upon that subject. Is there
no way that I can avail myself of it to promote my plan?

"'Finding by your letter that you suppose that Mr. Sheppard, who was
settled at Cambridge, and who was an eminent minister in that day,
was the same that graduated in 1653, I inclose you some memorandums
respecting that family, which may, perhaps, be gratifying to the Judge
as well as to yourself.'

"The postscript is in these words:--'I will thank you to present my
respects to Judge Cranch, when you have a convenient opportunity, and
inform him that I feel myself under great obligations to him for his
information respecting Messrs. Nye and Fiske; and that any further
communications he will please to make to me, I shall most gratefully
acknowledge.'"




LETTER FROM REV. JOHN WALROND OF OTTERY, ENG., TO REV. WILLIAM WALDRON,
MINISTER OF BOSTON, AND BROTHER OF SECRETARY WALDRON.


                                        OTTERY, March 8, 1725-6.
  "REV. AND DEAR SIR,

It was a very pleasant surprise to me to receive a Letter from you, who
no doubt are of the same Name and Family with myself, tho' a letter in
it be transposed, and who by Dr. Mather's Character of you, are not the
least in your Father's House.

I have made some Enquiry about the Somersetshire Branch of our Family,
from whence you are descended, but cannot exactly determine, tho' I
am apt to think it must be from one of those two Gentlemen, of which,
one was Walrond, of _Illbrewers_ who had about five hundred Pounds
pr. Annum or more, and the other Walrond of _Saye_, of about the
same Value, and I think both of them Justices of the Peace, in that
County, one of them I am sure was so, viz., the former; both of them
degenerated into looseness of Living in Charles 2ds Reign, and both
ruined their Estates and dyed poor, above twenty years since. Walrond
of _Illbrewers_ was a great persecutor of the Dissenters, but in the
conclusion wanted bread.

There is an honest family of about a hundred Pounds pr. annum, still
living at _Wellington_, in Somerset, very excellent Men, great supports
of Religion, and one of the Brothers abᵗ your Age, a very good young
Minister, living now in Dorsetshire.

The Head of all our Family still remains in a good Estate, about a
thousand Pounds pr. Annum, from whom I am the second Generation. The
seat is called _Bradfield_ in Devon.

It was granted by the Crown, about six hundred years since, to one
Richard Walerand, and has continued in the Family to this Day; The last
Gentleman that dyed was a very pious good Man, about eighty years of
Age and an excellent Magistrate in his Country, that could at any time
lead three hundred Freeholders, to the Election of a Shire Knight; but
his son is degenerate and very wicked: I conversed much with the old
Gentleman, but this is no Friend to my Profession.

Another Branch sprung from Bradfield House in this county (beside those
two families in Somerset before mentioned) which is seated at _Bovey_,
in the East of Devon, which Branch sprang from its Root about 340
years since, and now inherits at least, a thousand Pounds per Annum;
This also has degenerated and become like other Gentlemen in England:
For Religion indeed, is almost quite gone, out of the Familys of the
Gentry, by Means of a loose and licentious Clergy.

I never could find any of our Name, in all England, but in the Western
Counties, and from thence, a Family went, as Merchants to Barbadoes,
grew rich, and was in the Government there; and the last Gentleman a
Batchelor seated himself at Greenwich near London, was morally honest
and very charitable, but having a great loss in the South Sea, of
almost all his Money could not bear it, but shot himself in the Head.

Our Coat of Arms, is three Bulls Heads, as you'l see by my seal on this
Letter, But _Stemata quid faciunt_?

I find our Name in Skinner's _Etymologicon Linguæ Anglicanæ_; toward
the end of which Book, in his _Onomastichon_, he has the word Walarand,
_olim Praenomen nunc Cognomen ab Anglo Sax_ WALPIAN, _volvere, et_
RAND, _Scutum, volvere scutum, i. c., qui Clypeum huc illuc
circumagit_. Waldron _autem cognomen contractum est a_ Walarand. I have
transcribed what he says lest the Book should not be common with you.
I wish you had let me know into what Family your Grandfather married,
for that might perhaps have given Light into the Enquiry; however I
will examine farther, and take the first opportunity to inform you, as
I can get Intelligence; but I know of no male Posterity left of the two
Somersetshire Familys that I mentioned above.

I am much pleased with your Correspondence, and shall at any time be
obliged by Letters from you, * * * send, by a worthy good Man, Capt.
* * * who carries this (as I hope he will) from the * * * Exeter to
Boston. As to any Ecclesiastical Informations I must refer you to
Dr. Mather's Letter which encloses this. May the Lord of the Harvest
prosper you and make you a burning and a shining Light. You and I are
of one Family, Faith and Profession. Let us particularly pray for each
other, tho' we should never see each others face on Earth. Oh that the
God of all Grace, may excite us both, to work the Works, of him that
sent us while it is Day, that we may have a comfortable Requiem, from
our Labors at last, and be accepted, when our Lord shall come, with
which I conclude.

                           Dear Sir, Your affect: Kinsman and Serv't,
  "To the Rev. Mr. William Waldron,                        John Walrond."
        Minister in Boston."

    NOTE. Where blanks occur in the last part of the letter, the
    words were worn out in the original.


  ------------------------------------------------------+
                FORM OF A FAMILY REGISTER.              |
  -------------------+----------------------------------+
           Parents.  |      Children.                   |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
       | J    | H    | C W  | S    | P    | H    | J    |
       | A    | A    | O A  | A    | O    | A    | U    |
       | M    | N    | T R  | L    | L    | N    | D    |
       | E    | N    | T D. | L    | L    | N    | I    |
       | S.   | A    | O    | Y.   | Y.   | A    | T    |
       |      | H.   | N    |      |      | H.   | H.   |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1755 |B. 14
       |Nov.
  -----+------+
  1763 |8 yrs.| B. 31
       |old   |  Oct.
  -----+------+------+
  1783 | 28   | 20   | B. 13
       |      |      | July.
  -----+------+------+------+
  1785 | 30   | 22   | 2    | B. 7
       |      |      |      | Aug.
  -----+------+------+------+------+
  1787 | 32   | 24   | 4    | 2    |B. 19
       |      |      |      |      |June.
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+
  1789 | 34   | 26   | 6    | 4    | 2    |B. 12
       |      |      |      |      |      |Mar.
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1791 | 36   | 28   | 8    | 6    | 4    | 2    |B. 12
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |Mar.
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1793 | 38   | 30   | 10   | 8    | 6    | 4    | 2    |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1795 | 40   | 32   | 12   | 10   | 8    | 6    | 4    |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1797 | 42   | 34   | 14   | 12   | 10   | 8    | 6    |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1799 | 44   | 36   | 16   | 14   | 12   | 10   | 8    |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1802 | 47   | 39   | 19   |M. 4 Fb.| 15 | 13   | 11   |
       |      |      |      | 17   |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1805 | 50   | 42   | 22   | 20   | 18   | 16   | 14   |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1809 | 54   | 46   | 26   | 24   | 22   | 20   | 18   |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1834 | D. 4 | 71   | 51   | 49   | 47   | 45   | 43   |
       | Feb. |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1847 |      | 84   | 64   | 62   | 60   | 58   | 56   |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

  ------------------------------------------------------+
               FORM OF A FAMILY REGISTER.               |
  ------------------------------------------------------+
                            Children.                   |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
       | R    | T    | S    | D    | B    | J    | N W. |
       | A    | H    | I    | E    | E    | A    | O    |
       | C    | E    | M    | B    | T    | M    | A    |
       | H    | O    | O    | O    | S    | E    | H    |
       | E    | D    | N.   | R    | Y.   | S.   |      |
       | L.   | A    |      | A    |      |      |      |
       |      | T    |      | H.   |      |      |      |
       |      | E.   |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1755 |
       |
  -----+
  1763 |
       |
  -----+
  1783 |
       |
  -----+
  1785 |
       |
  -----+
  1787 |
       |
  -----+
  1789 |
       |
  -----+
  1791 |
       |
  -----+
  1793 |B. 23
       |June.
  -----+------+
  1795 | 2    |B. 20
       |      |June.
  -----+------+------+
  1797 | 4    | 2    |B. 6
       |      |      |Mar.
  -----+------+------+------+
  1799 | 6    | 4    | 2    |B. 22
       |      |      |      |Mar.
  -----+------+------+------+------+
  1802 | 9    | 7    | 5    | 3    |B. 22
       |      |      |      |      |July.
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+
  1805 | 12   | 10   | 8    | 6    | 3    |B. 29
       |      |      |      |      |      |June.
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1809 | 16   | 14   | 12   | 10   | 7    |4     |B. 28
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |July.
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1834 | 41   | 39   | 37   | 35   | 32   | 29   | 25   |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+
  1847 | 54   | 52   | 50   | 48   |      | 42   | 38   |
       |      |      |      |      |      |      |      |
  -----+------+------+------+------+------+------+------+

A Family Record on this plan may be extended so as to include two,
three, or more families, and contain all the births, marriages and
deaths which have happened, up to the date of its formation. The
figures in the first column denote the year of birth, marriage, or
death; the other columns show the ages of every individual at the
time of any birth, marriage, or death, of every other individual
comprehended within the limits of the Table.




GENEALOGIES.

CHASE FAMILY.

PREPARED BY JOSHUA COFFIN, M. A.


Among the early settlers of New England, were three persons by the
name of Chase; namely, William, Thomas, and Aquila. The first settled
in Yarmouth, and there died, in 1659, leaving two sons, Benjamin and
William. The last two were certainly brothers, as appears from a deed
given in 1667 by Aquila to "the sons of his brother Thomas." The name
is found in various places in English history, from the time of William
the Conqueror to the present time. Thus, we find in 1326 a family of
that name in Suffolk; a Thomas Chase, who was barbarously murdered in
1506; a Sir Robert Chase, Knight, in the West of England, 1628; a Sir
John Chase in Exeter, prior to 1637; a John Chase, Esq., Apothecary to
Queen Anne, 1690, &c. See Magna Britannia, Lysson's London, Polwheles'
Devonshire, and other works.

  Thomas¹ and Aquila¹ Chase were among the first settlers of
    Hampton, N. H., in 1639. Thomas¹ there married Elizabeth
    Philbrick, daughter of Thomas Philbrick. He d. in 1652, leaving
    five children, all sons; namely,

      I.  Thomas,² b. 1643, d. a bachelor, Oct. 23, 1714.

     II.  Joseph,² b. 1645, m. Rachel Partridge, Jan. 31, 1671, d. Jan. 12,
  1718.

    III.  Isaac,² b. 1647, m. Mary Perkins of Hampton, d. May 9, 1727.

     IV.  James,² b. 1649, m. Elizabeth Green, Sept. 2, 1675, and d. ----.

      V.  Abraham, b. 1651, was not married, and "was slaine in yᵉ
          warres," 1676. Elizabeth, the widow of Thomas¹ Chase, married
          John Garland, Oct. 26, 1654, who died Jan. 4, 1671. She then
          married Judge Henry Roby, Feb. 19, 1674, and died Feb. 11,
          1677.

The children of Joseph² and Rachel Chase were as follows:

    I.  Hannah,³ b. June 5, 1672, d. June 10, 1674.

   II.  Elizabeth,³ b. March 11, 1674, d. Sept. 8, 1675.

  III.  Jonathan,³ b. March 14, 1676, and drowned, Feb. 1, 1696.

   IV.  Anne,³ b. Jan. 11, 1677, m. ---- Sinkler.

    V.  Elizabeth,³ b. Feb. 14, 1685, m. Benjamin Hilliard.

   VI.  Rachel,³ b. April 27, 1687, m. Jacob Freeze.

The children of Isaac² and Mary were as follows:

     I.  Thomas,³ b. 1677.
    II.  Rachel,³ b. 1678.
   III.  Isaac,³ b. 1681.
    IV.  Abraham,³ b. 1683.
     V.  Mary,³ b. 1687.
    VI.  James,³ b. 1688.
   VII.  Joseph,³ b. 1689, m. Lydia Coffin, 1714.
  VIII.  Jonathan,³ b. 1691.
    IX.  Hannah,³ b. 1693.
     X.  Sarah,³ b. 1695.
    XI.  Priscilla,³ b. 1697.
   XII.  Elizabeth,³ b. 1703, d. 1719.

The children of James² and Elizabeth Chase were as follows:

    I.  Abigail,³ b. Aug. 27, 1681, m. John Chase[26] of Newbury.
   II.  Dorothy,³ b. March 17, 1686, m. John Chapman, March 16, 1705.
  III.  Mary,³ b. Feb. 8, 1688.

  Aquila¹ Chase, brother to Thomas¹ Chase, m. Anne Wheeler,
    daughter of John Wheeler of Hampton, removed, in 1646, to
    Newbury, where he d. Aug. 29, 1670, aged 52. His widow, Anne,
    m. Daniel Mussiloway, June 14, 1672, and d. May 19, 1688. The
    children of Aquila¹ and Anne Chase were as follows:

     I.  Sarah,² b. ----, m. Charles Annis, May 15, 1666.
    II.  Anne,² b. July 6, 1647, m. Thomas Barber, April 27, 1671.
   III.  Priscilla,² b. March 14, 1649, m. Abel Merrill, Feb. 10, 1670.
    IV.  Mary,² b. Feb. 3, 1651, m. John Stevens, March 9, 1669.
     V.  Aquila,² b. Sept. 26, 1652, m. Esther Bond, ab. 1673.
    VI.  Thomas,² b. July 25, 1654, m. Rebecca Follansbee, Nov. 22, 1677.
   VII.  John,² b. Nov. 2, 1654, m. Elizabeth Bingley, May 23, 1677.
  VIII.  Elizabeth,² b. Sept. 13, 1657.
    IX.  Ruth,² b. March 18, 1660, d. May 30, 1676.
     X.  Daniel,² b. Dec. 9, 1661, m. Martha Kimball, Aug. 25, 1683.
    XI.  Moses,² b. Dec. 24, 1663, m. Anne Follansbee, Nov. 10, 1684.

The children of Aquila² and Esther Chase were as follows:

     I.  Esther,³ b. Nov. 18, 1674, m. Daniel Merrill.
    II.  Joseph,³ b. March 25, 1677, m. Abigail Thurston, Nov. 8, 1699.
   III.  Priscilla,³ b. Oct. 15, 1681, m. Joseph Hills, 1704.
    IV.  Jemima,³ b. ----, a spinster.
     V.  Rebecca,³ b. ----, m. Jonathan Moulton, Dec. 5, 1716.
    VI.  Anne,³ b. ----, m. Abraham Foulsham, Oct. 27, 1703.
   VII.  Hannah,³ b. ----, m. Joseph Hoyt.
  VIII.  Abigail,³ b. ----, m. Joseph Robinson.

The children of Thomas² and Rebecca Chase were as follows:

      I.  Thomas,³ b. Sept. 15, 1680, m. Sara ----.
     II.  Jonathan,³ b. Jan. 13, 1683, m. Joanna Palmer, 1703.
    III.  James,³ b. Sept. 15, 1685, m. Martha Rolfe, Dec. 17, 1707.
     IV.  Aquila,³ b. July 15, 1688, m. Mary Smith, 1712, d. 1714.
      V.  Ruth,³ b. Feb. 28, 1691, m. Nathaniel Miller of Rehoboth,
          May 29, 1716.
     VI.  Mary,³ b. Jan. 15, 1695, m. ---- Horton.
    VII.  Rebecca,³ b. April 26, 1700, m. Stephen Moulton, Dec. 14, 1721.
   VIII.  Judith,³ b. ----, m. ---- Horton.
     IX.  Lizza³ b. ----, m. Benjamin Rogers, Aug. 17, 1732.
      X.  Josiah,³ b. July 15, 1697, d. young.
     XI.  Nathan,³ b. ----, 1702, m. Judith Sawyer, Nov. 29, 1723, then
  Joanna Cheney, Dec. 30, 1740, and then Ruth Davis, June
  9, 1763.

Thomas² Chase m. for his second wife Elizabeth Mooers, Aug. 2, 1713.

The children of John² and Elizabeth Chase were as follows:

      I.  William,³ b. Jan. 3, 1679.
     II.  Philip,³ b. Sept. 23, 1688, m. Mary Follansbee, April 17, 1712.
    III.  Charles,³ b. Jan. 12, 1690, and m. Hepzibah Carr, July 15, 1714.
     IV.  Jacob,³ b. ----, m. Joanna Davis, Aug. 24, 1716.
      V.  Abraham,³ b, ----, m. Ruth Morse, Nov. 16, 1716.
     VI.  Phebe,³ b. ----, m. ---- Tucker.
    VII.  Mary,³ b. ----, m. Joseph Safford, July 30, 1728.
   VIII.  Lydia,³ b. ----, m. William Blay, Nov. 5, 1724.
     IX.  Elizabeth,³ b. ----.
      X.  John,³ b. ----, m. Abigail Chase of Hampton, N. H.

  John² Chase m. for his second wife Lydia ----.
     XI.  David,³ son of John and Lydia, b. Oct. 20, 1710.

The children of Daniel² and Martha Chase were as follows:

      I.  Martha,³ b. Aug. 18, 1684, m. David Lawson, Aug. 3, 1716.
     II.  Sara,³ b. July 18, 1686, m. Francis Danford, Nov. 17, 1714.
    III.  Dorothy,³ b. Jan. 24, 1689.
     IV.  Isaac,³ b. Jan. 19, 1691, m. Hannah Berry, Oct. 29, 1710.
      V.  Lydia,³ b. Jan. 19, 1693, m. William Evans, Jan. 30, 1716.
     VI.  Mehetabel,³ b. Jan. 19, 1695, m. Timothy Osgood of Salisbury,
          Nov. 19, 1715.
    VII.  Judith,³ b. Feb. 19, 1697, m. John Tuttle of Lebanon, 1713.
   VIII.  Abner,³ b. Oct. 15, 1699.
     IX.  Daniel,³ b. Oct. 15, 1702, m. Mary Carpenter, Jan., 1723, and
  for his second wife, Elizabeth Collins of Salisbury, Feb.,
  1726.
      X.  Enoch,³ b. ----, m. Judith Colby, 1726.

  Daniel² d. Feb. 8, 1707. His widow Martha m. Josiah Heath of Haverhill,
  1713.

The children of Moses² and Anne Chase were as follows:

      I.  Twins  { Moses,³ b. Sept. 20, 1685, d. young.
     II.         { Daniel,³ b. Sept. 20, 1685, m. Sarah March,
                   Jan. 2, 1706.
    III.  Moses,³ b. Jan. 20, 1688, m. Elizabeth Wells, Oct. 2, 1709.
     IV.  Samuel,³ b. May 13, 1690, m. Hannah Emery, Dec. 8, 1713.
      V.  Elizabeth,³ b. Sept. 25, 1693.
     VI.  Stephen,³ b. Aug. 29, 1696, m. Sarah Hale, Dec. 1717.
    VII.  Hannah,³ b. Sept. 13, 1699, m. Timothy Jackman, April 9, 1723.
   VIII.  Joseph,³ b. Sept. 9, 1703, m. Mary Morss, Sept. 7, 1724.
     IX.  Benoni,³ b. April 5, 1708, m. Mary Rogers, Sept. 4, 1728.

  Moses² Chase m. for his second wife, Sarah Jacobs of Ipswich, 1713.

The children of John³ and Abigail³ Chase of Hampton were as follows:

    I.  James,⁴ b. July 28, 1698.
   II.  Jonathan,⁴ b. Sept. 21, 1700.
  III.  Elizabeth,⁴ b. April 13, 1703.
   IV.  Elihu,⁴ b. Sept. 7, 1705.
    V.  John,⁴ b. Sept. 18, 1708, and m. Anna Runlet, March 27, 1729.
   VI.  Hannah,⁴ b. May 10, 1711.

FOOTNOTES:

[26] Son of John Chase, and grandson of Aquila Chase of Newbury.




DUDLEY FAMILY.


Thomas Dudley, son of Capt. Roger Dudley, was born in England in
1576; came to New England in 1630; was several years Governor of
Massachusetts Colony, and died at Roxbury, July 31, 1653, aged 77.
His first wife, or the one who came with him, died in 1643. Samuel,
Anne, Patience, and Mercy were probably children by her. He married
again before 1645, and had by his second wife five children more. His
children by both wives were as follows:

     I. Samuel, b. in England, 1606, who was a minister and was m. to
        Mary Winthrop about 1633, and had children,--
            1. Thomas, bapt. March 9, 1634, grad. H. C. 1651, d. Nov.
          7, 1655.
            2. John, bapt. June 28, 1635.
            3. Samuel, bapt. Aug. 2, 1639, d. April, 1643.
            4. Anne, b. Oct. 16, 1641, who m. Edward Hilton and had
          children, Winthrop, Dudley, Joseph, and others.
            5. Theophilus, b. Oct., 1644.
            6. Mary, b. April 21, 1646, d. Oct. 28, 1646.
            7. Biley, b. Sept. 27, 1647.
            8. Mary 2nd, b. Jan. 6, 1649.

          Mary, the 1st wife of Rev. Samuel Dudley, d. at Salisbury,
        (where the 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, and 8th children were born,) April
        12, 1643. He d. at Exeter before March 20, 1683, a. 77. His
        settlement in the ministry there was in 1650.

    II. Anne, who m. Gov. Simon Bradstreet. She had 8 children and
        d. Sept. 16, 1672.

   III. Patience, who m. Maj. Gen. Denison.

    IV. Mercy, who m. Rev. John Woodbridge. She was b. Sept. 27,
        1621, and d. July 1, 1691, a. 70.

     V. ----, who m. Maj. Benjamin Keayne of Boston, who d. 1668.

    VI. Dorothy, who d. Feb. 27, 1643.

   VII. Deborah, b. at Roxbury, Feb. 27, 1645.

  VIII. Joseph, b. Sept. 23, 1647, who was Governor of Massachusetts,
        and m. a daughter of Edward Tyng, and had children,--
            1. Thomas, b. at Roxbury, Feb. 26, 1669-70, grad. H. C.
          1685.
            2. Edward, b. at Roxbury, Sept. 4, 1671.
            3. Paul, b. at Roxbury, Sept. 3, 1675, grad. H. C. 1690. He
          was a Tutor and Fellow of the College, and also, Fellow of
          the Royal Society in England and Chief Justice of Massachusetts.
          He d. Jan. 21, 1751, a. 75.
            4. Samuel, b. at Roxbury, Sept., 1677.
            5. John, b. at Roxbury, Feb. 28, 1678-79.
            6. Rebecca, b. May 15, 1681, who m. Samuel Sewall, Jr.,
          and d. April 14, 1761, a. 79.
            7. Catharine, b. June 2, 1683.
            8. Ann, b. Aug. 27, 1684.
            9. William, b. Oct. 20, 1686, who grad. H. C. 1704, and m.
          eldest dau. of Judge Davenport, March 10, 1721, and was a
          colonel. He had two sons: Thomas, who grad. H. C. 1750,
          and Joseph, who grad. H. C. 1751, was an Attorney at Law
          in Boston, and d. Sept. 27, 1767, a. 35.
           10. Daniel, b. Feb. 4, 1689.
           11. Catharine 2nd, b. Jan. 5, 1690.
           12. Mary, b. Nov. 2, 1692, who m. Francis Wainwright,
          who d. 1722, and afterwards m. Joseph Atkins, 1730.

    IX. Paul, b. at Roxbury, Sept. 8, 1650, who m. Mary Leverett, dau.
        of Gov. Leverett, and had children,--
            1. Paul, b. at Boston, March 4, 1677.
            2. Thomas, who alone, with one in expectation, is mentioned
          in his will of Feb. 10, 1681. (_Probate Records in
          Boston, Vol. VI. p. 368._)
            3. One posthumous.




EPITAPHS.[27]


                    Here is interred the remains of
      JAMES MINOTT, Esq., A. M. an
      Excelling Grammarian, Enriched
    with the Gift of Prayer and Preaching,
    a Commanding Officer, a Physician of
    Great Value, a Great Lover of Peace
    as well as of Justice, and which was
His greatest Glory, a Gent'n of distinguished
  Virtue and Goodness, happy in a Virtuous
    Posterity, and living Religiously, Died
      Comfortably, Sept. 20, 1735, Æt. 83.

       *       *       *       *       *

                    Here lyes the remains of
                Major JONATHAN PRESCOTT, Esq.,
      a Gentleman of virtue and merit, an accomplisht physitian,
                    but excelling in chirurgery.
    Of uncommon sagacity, penetration, and success in his practice,
                  and so of very extensive service.
  But his life was much valued, and his death very generally lamented.
            He married the amiable and only daughter of the
              Honorable Colonel PETER BULKLEY, Esq.,
                    by whom he had ten children.
He was removed from ministring to men's bodies, to the world of spirits,
                   October 28th, 1729, Ætatis suæ 54.

       *       *       *       *       *

Here lyes the Body of Rev. Mr. CHRISTOPHER TOPPAN, Master of Arts,
fourth Pastor of the First Church in Newbury; a Gentleman of good
Learning, conspicuous Piety and Virtue, shining both by his Doctrine
and Life, skilled and greatly improved in the Practice of Physick and
Surgery, who deceased, July 23, 1747, in the 76th year of his age, and
the 51st of his Pastoral Office.

FOOTNOTES:

[27] The first two monumental inscriptions were taken from the
burying-ground in Concord, Ms., and the last one from the graveyard in
Newbury, Ms.




INSTANCES OF LONGEVITY IN BELFAST, ME.


The names of aged persons who died in this town before 1827, with their
respective ages and the times of their decease, are here inserted.

Of these individuals it has been said, "In their manners they exhibited
a model of perfect plainness and simplicity, indicative of contentment
and a cheerful disposition; and so cordial was their reception of those
who visited them, that with truth it might be said, they were given
to hospitality. Their descendants read the poems of Burns with a keen
relish, and are enthusiastic admirers of the Scottish Bard."

  1794. James Miller,            aged 82
  1795. John Steele,               "  84
  1797. William McLaughlin,        "  90
  1800. Margaret Cochran,          "  85
  1802. John Tufts,                "  78
    "   Grissel Jameson,           "  96
  1807. Solon Stevenson,           "  73
  1810. Mary Brown,                "  90
  1812. James Gordon,              "  86
  1815. William Lowney,[28]        "  76
  1817. Patrick Gilbert,           "  78
  1817. John Brown,                "  86
  1819. Samuel Houston,            "  92
  1820. Jerome Stevenson,          "  82
  1821. Elizabeth Jones,           "  84
    "   Laughlin McDonald,[29]     " 110
  1822. George Cochran,            "  85
  1823. John Durham,               "  74
  1824. James Patterson,           "  80
    "   Jonathan Clark,            "  78
    "   Susan Sturtevant,          "  84
  1826. Nathaniel Patterson,       "  79
    "   Agnes Robinson,            "  89.

In the year 1827, there were thirteen persons living in Belfast, whose
average age was 82 years, 7 months, and 11 days. Their respective names
and ages were as follows:

  Samuel Cunningham,             aged 88
  William Cunningham,              "  86
  Robert Patterson,                "  85
  Jane Patterson,                  "  77
  John Cochran,                    "  78
  Sarah West,                      "  80
  John Burgess,                    "  92
  Nathaniel Stanley,               "  82
  Alexander Clark,                 "  81
  Elisha Clark,                    "  81
  Tolford Durham,                  "  81
  Annis Cochran,                   "  80
  Elizabeth Campbell,              "  82.

The above is an extract from White's History of Belfast, Me.

FOOTNOTES:

[28] Mr. Lowney was graduated at Dublin College.

[29] McDonald was born in Scotland, and entered the army while a boy;
his age is not positively ascertained. He remembered having seen the
Duke of Marlborough, who died ninety-nine years before he did; he
came to America in General Wolfe's army in 1759, and after Quebec was
reduced, went to Bucksport, and thence to Belfast. The lowest estimate
of his age, made by his relatives, has been taken.




SCRAPS FROM INTERLEAVED ALMANACS.


1638. This year arrived 20 ships and 3,000 passengers.

March 18, 1617. Mary Martin executed at Boston for murthering her child.

June 15, 1648. Alice[30] Jones was executed at Boston for witchcraft.
This was the first execution of the kind in New England.

March 26, 1649. Mr. John Winthrop, Gov., dyed.

Aug. 24, 1649. Mr. Shepard of Camb. dyed.

Nov. 21, 1650. 12 or 13 houses in Charlestown was burnt.

FOOTNOTES:

[30] Winthrop and others say _Margaret_.




DECEASE OF THE FATHERS OF NEW ENGLAND.

Chronologically arranged.


1630.

  Aug. 6, Rev. Francis Higginson d. at Salem, a. 43.

  Sept. 20, Dr. William Gager, surgeon, d. at Charlestown.

  Sept. 30, Isaac Johnson, an Assistant, d. at Boston.

  Oct. 23, Edward Rossiter, an Assistant.

1631-2.

  Feb. 16, Capt. Robert Welden d. at Charlestown.

1634.

  Aug. 2, Rev. Samuel Skelton d. at Salem; the first _pastor_ who died
  in New England, the term pastor being used in contradistinction to
  teacher.

1635.

  Aug. 14, Rev. John Avery was drowned.

1636.

  Feb. 3, Rev. John Maverick of Dorchester d. at Boston, a. 60.

1638.

  April --, Nicholas Danforth d. at Cambridge.

  Sept. 14, Rev. John Harvard, founder of Harvard College, d. at
  Charlestown.

  Nov. 17, Roger Harlakenden, an Assistant, d. at Cambridge.

  Dec. 21, John Masters.

1641.

  Aug. 9, Rev. Jonathan Burr of Dorchester d., a. 37.

          Rev. Henry Smith of Wethersfield. (Mr. Savage says he
  died in 1648.)

1644.

  April 16, Elder William Brewster of Plymouth d., a. 84.

  July 1, Rev. George Phillips of Watertown.

          Israel Stoughton, an Assistant, d. in England.

          John Atwood, an Assistant of Plymouth Colony.

  Sept. 4, Rev. Ephraim Hewett of Windsor, Ct.

           Hon. George Wyllys of Hartford, Ct.

1646.

  April 12, John Oliver, (H. C. 1645,) d. at Boston, a. 29.

1647.

  July 7, Rev. Thomas Hooker of Hartford, Ct., d., a. 62.

                          (To be continued.)

[Illustration: Governor Bradstreet's House.]




GOVERNOR BRADSTREET.


Simon Bradstreet, son of a non-conforming minister, was born March,
1603, at Horblin, Lincolnshire. His father died when he was fourteen
years old, and he was committed to the care of Hon. Thomas Dudley,
for eight years following. He spent one year at Emmanuel College,
Cambridge, pursuing his studies amidst various interruptions. Leaving
Cambridge, he resided in the family of the Earl of Lincoln, as his
steward, and afterwards lived in the same capacity with the Countess
of Warwick. He with Mr. Winthrop, Mr. Dudley, and others, agreed to
emigrate, and form a settlement in Massachusetts; and being appointed
an Assistant, he with his family and others went on board the Arbella,
March 29, 1630; anchored, June 12, near Naumkeak, now Salem, went on
shore, but returned to the vessel at night; came, on the 14th, into the
inner harbor, and went on shore. He attended the first Court, Aug. 23,
at Charlestown.

In the spring of 1631, Mr. Bradstreet with other gentlemen commenced
building at Newtown, now Cambridge, and his name is among those
constituting the first company, which settled in that town in 1632. He
resided there several years. In 1639, the Court granted him 500 acres
of land in Salem, in the next convenient place to Gov. Endicott's farm.
It appears that he resided a short time at Ipswich.

Mr. Bradstreet was among the first settlers of Andover, and was highly
useful in promoting the settlement, in bearing the burdens incident to
a new plantation, and in giving a right direction to its affairs. About
the year 1644, he built the first mill on the Cochichewick. He was a
selectman from the first record of town officers to 1672, soon after
which, he probably spent most of his time in Boston and Salem. He was
the first Secretary of the colony, and discharged the duties of the
office many years. He was one of the first Commissioners of the United
Colonies in 1643, and served many years with fidelity and usefulness in
this office. In 1653, he with his colleague vigorously opposed making
war on the Dutch in New York, and on the Indians; and it was prevented
by his steady and conscientious opposition and the decision of the
General Court of Massachusetts, though earnestly and strenuously urged
by all the Commissioners of the other three colonies.

He was Deputy Governor from 1672 to 1679, when he was elected Governor,
and continued in office till Mr. Joseph Dudley, his nephew, was
appointed, in 1686, head of the administration, and the government was
changed and the Charter annulled.

Gov. Bradstreet was considered at the head of the moderate party; and,
when the Charter was demanded by King Charles, he thought it better
that it should be surrendered, than that it should be taken away by
judgment, as in that case it might be more easily resumed.

He strenuously opposed the arbitrary proceedings of Andros; and
when, in 1689, the people put down his authority, they made their
old Governor their President. He continued at the head of the
administration till May, 1692, at the advanced age of 89 years, when
Sir William Phips arrived from England with the new Charter, in which
Sir William was appointed Governor, and Mr. Bradstreet first Assistant.
He had been in service in the government sixty-two years, excepting the
short administrations of Dudley and Andros. No man in the country has
continued in so high offices so many years, and to so advanced age as
he. He was a popular magistrate, and was opposed to the witch delusion
in 1692, which caused great alarm and distress at the commencement of
Gov. Phips' administration. "He lived to be the Nestor of New England,"
for all who came over from England with him, died before him.

The following inscription is on the monument erected in Salem to Gov.
Bradstreet:

SIMON BRADSTREET,

    Armiger, ex ordine Senatoris in Colonia Massachusettensi
    ab anno 1630, usque ad annum 1673. Deinde ad annum 1679,
    Vice-Gubernator. Denique, ad annum 1686, ejusdem coloniae,
    communi et constanti populi suffragio,


GUBERNATOR,

    Vir, judicio Lynceario praeditus; quem nec numma, nec honos
    allexit. Regis auctoritatem, et populi libertatem, aequa lance
    libravit. Religione cordatus, vita innocuus, mundum et vicit et
    deseruit, 27 die Martii, A. D. 1697, annoque Guliel: 3t. IX. et
    Æt. 94.

Gov. Bradstreet was married in England to Miss Ann Dudley, daughter
of Mr. Thomas Dudley, when she was sixteen years old. She is the most
distinguished of the early matrons of our country by her literary
powers, of which proof is given in a volume of poems. It was dedicated
to her father in poetry, dated March 20, 1642. The title of the book
is, "Several poems, compiled with great variety of wit and learning,
full of delight; wherein especially is contained a complete discourse
and description of the four elements, constituting ages of man,
seasons of the year, together with an exact epitome of the three
first monarchies, viz., the Assyrian, Persian, Grecian, and Roman
commonwealth, from the beginning to the end of their last king, with
divers other pleasant and serious poems. By a Gentlewoman of New
England." A second edition of it was printed at Boston, 1678, by
John Foster, in a respectable 12mo of 255 pp., and a third edition
was published in 1758. The work does honor to her education, by her
frequent allusions to ancient literature and historical facts, and to
her character, as a daughter, a wife, a parent, and Christian. This
volume is a real curiosity, though no reader, free from partiality of
friendship, might coincide with the commendation of her in the funeral
eulogy of John Norton:

    "Could Maro's muse but hear her lively strain,
    He would condemn his works to fire again.

           *       *       *       *       *

    Her breast was a brave palace, a _broad street_,
    Where all heroic, ample thoughts did meet,
    Where nature had such a tenement ta'en,
    That other souls, to her's, dwelt in a lane."

Dr. Mather, in his Magnalia, gives a high commendation of her, "whose
poems, divers times printed, have afforded a grateful entertainment
unto the ingenious, and a monument for her memory beyond the stateliest
marbles."

Their children were as follows:

  1. Samuel, who had two daughters b. in Boston, 1663, 1665.
  2. Simon, who was settled in the ministry in New London, Ct.
  3. Dudley of Andover.
  4. John, who was b. in Andover, July 31, 1652, and settled in Salem.
  5. Ann, who m. Mr. Wiggin of Exeter.
  6. Dorothy, who m. Rev. Seaborn Cotton, Hampton, June 25, 1654.
  7. Hannah, who m. Mr. Andrew Wiggin, Exeter, June 14, 1659.
  8. Mary, who m. Mr. Nathaniel Wade, Nov. 11, 1672.

Mrs. Bradstreet died in Andover, Sept. 16, 1672, aged 60.

Gov. Bradstreet married for his second wife, a sister of Sir George
Downing, who was in the first class that graduated at Harvard College,
and was ambassador of Cromwell and Charles II. to Holland. See _Abbot's
History of Andover_.




SKETCHES OF ALUMNI AT THE DIFFERENT COLLEGES IN NEW ENGLAND.


HON. WILLIAM CRANCH OF WASHINGTON, D. C.

JUDGE CRANCH was born at the house of his mother's father, the Rev.
William Smith, of Weymouth, Ms., July 17, 1769; and was baptized by him
the Sabbath following, as appears by the church records.[31] He had
no brother, but two sisters, and these were older than himself. The
elder sister, Elizabeth, married the Rev. Jacob Norton, who succeeded
Mr. Smith in the pastoral office. The other sister married Mr. John
Greenleaf, who resides at Quincy, Ms. Mrs. Greenleaf died Feb. 18, 1846.

His father, Richard Cranch, was born in Kingsbridge, near Exeter in
Devonshire, England, in November, 1726, and was the son of John, the
son of Andrew, the son of Richard, all of Devonshire. He was one of
six sons, and was bound as an apprentice to a maker of wool-cards;
but, at the age of 20, purchased the remainder of his time, and came
to this country in 1746, with General Joseph Palmer, who had married
his sister. Being fond of books, he became a learned man, received
an honorary degree of M. A. from Harvard University, was elected a
member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, sustained several
important public offices, and was for many years a member of the
Legislature and a Judge of the Court of Common Pleas. He died in 1811,
in his 85th year.

His mother was Mary, the eldest daughter of the Rev. William Smith of
Weymouth, and granddaughter of Col. John Quincy of Mount Wollaston, in
that part of Braintree since incorporated by the name of Quincy, in
honor of his memory. There is now no lineal descendant from him of the
name of Quincy. The next daughter of Mr. Smith was Abigail, who became
the wife of the late President John Adams; and the other daughter was
Elizabeth, who married the Rev. John Shaw of Haverhill, Ms., and after
his death, the Rev. Stephen Peabody of Atkinson, N. H. She died April
9, 1815, aged 65. She had three children by her first husband, William
Smith, Elizabeth Quincy, and Abigail Adams. The son was the principal
founder of the Boston Athenæum. He was born Aug. 12, 1778, graduated
H. C. 1798, and died 1826. The first daughter was born May 26, 1780,
and died Sept. 4, 1798, aged 18. The last daughter is the wife of Rev.
Joseph B. Felt of this city.

The great-grandmother of the subject of this sketch, the wife of Col.
John Quincy, who died July 13, 1767, was Mary Norton, the daughter of
the Rev. John Norton of Hingham, whose genealogy is distinctly traced
back to the time of William the Conqueror.

We cannot trace the ancestors of Judge Cranch's father back further
than his grandfather's grandfather. They all appear to have been
Dissenters, firm republicans, and honest men, but in humble life.
His grandfather, John Cranch, was a farmer and a freeholder; the
others seem to have been manufacturers of woollens. John Cranch, the
naturalist, who was, at the recommendation of Sir Joseph Banks, sent
out in the expedition to Egypt, where he died, was his second cousin.
His father's mother was Elizabeth Pearse, daughter of Christopher
Pearse and Margery Triste.

In April, 1775, his father removed from Boston to that part of
Braintree now called Quincy, where he resided until his death. He died
on the 16th, and his wife on the 17th, of October, 1811, and both
were buried on the same day, the 19th. A sermon was delivered on the
occasion by the Rev. Peter Whitney, which was printed.

Judge Cranch prepared for college under the instruction of his uncle,
the Rev. John Shaw of Haverhill, and entered the Freshman class, six
months in advance, in February, 1784. Having graduated at Harvard
College, he, July, 1787, entered the office of Judge Dawes of Boston,
who was then a practitioner in the courts of Massachusetts, where he
read law three years, and in July, 1790, was admitted to practice
in the Court of Common Pleas. He opened an office in Braintree, now
Quincy, but at the close of the first year, upon the death of his
relative, John Thaxter, Esq., who had been in the practice of the law
at Haverhill, Ms., he was induced by his friends to remove to that
place, and take his office, and complete his unfinished business;
which, with the confidence reposed in him by the Hon. Nathaniel Peaslee
Sergeant, then one of the Justices of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts, who appointed him sole executor of his will, introduced
him into practice, and enabled him to support himself and pay all
demands held against him. For three years, he attended the courts in
Essex county in Massachusetts and Rockingham county in New Hampshire,
and was admitted to practice in the Supreme Judicial Court in July,
1793.

In September, 1794, he was employed to superintend the affairs of
Morris, Nicholson, and Greenleaf, under their great contracts in the
City of Washington, to which place he removed in October of that year,
and has continued to reside in that place until the present time.

In April, 1795, he was connected in marriage with Nancy Greenleaf,
daughter of the late William Greenleaf of Boston, and moved his wife to
Washington, in May.

They have been the parents of 13 children, 3 of whom died in infancy.
The names of the other ten were 1. William Greenleaf; 2. Richard;
3. Ann Allen; 4. Mary; 5. Elizabeth Eliot; 6. John; 7. Edward Pope;
8. Christopher Pearse; 9. Abby Adams; 10. Margaret Dawes. Richard
was drowned in Lake Erie, while in the discharge of his duty as an
assistant-engineer, surveying the harbor, in his 29th year, unmarried.
Ann Allen died in April, 1821, of consumption, aged 22, also unmarried.
Mary married Richard Cranch Norton, and died when her first child was
one week old, in July, 1821, aged 20. Her husband died in October of
the same year.

The other 7 children are still living. Elizabeth married Rufus Dawes,
a son of the late Judge Dawes of Boston. Abby Adams married the Rev.
William G. Eliot of St. Louis, Missouri, where they reside and have a
number of children. William has been a clerk in the Patent Office. He
was two years at Harvard University; but his delicate health and feeble
constitution obliged him to leave his studies in his Junior year. The
other sons were educated at the Columbian College in the District of
Columbia. John spent three or four years in Italy, in drawing and
painting, to perfect his knowledge of these branches, and now resides
in Boston, where he pursues the employment of drawing and painting.
Edward Pope is settled in Cincinnati as a lawyer. Christopher Pearse
has been a preacher of the Gospel, but has lately turned his attention
to portrait painting, and is now in Italy. Mrs. Cranch deceased Sept.
17, 1843.

In the year 1800, Judge Cranch was appointed one of the Commissioners
of the City of Washington, which office he resigned in 1801, when he
was, by President Adams, appointed the junior assistant Judge of the
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia, under the act of Congress
of Feb. 27, 1801; the late Governor Thomas Johnson of Maryland, who
had been one of the Commissioners of the City of Washington, having
been appointed Chief Judge; and Mr. James Marshall, brother of the late
Chief Justice Marshall, having been appointed elder assistant Judge.
Gov. Johnson refused to accept the office; and Mr. Jefferson appointed
William Kitty, Esq., Chief Judge. Mr. Marshall resigned in 1803, and
Nicholas Fitzhugh, Esq., of Virginia, was appointed in his place.

In 1805, Mr. Kitty having been appointed Chancellor of Maryland, Judge
Cranch was appointed by Mr. Jefferson to the office of Chief Justice,
which office he now holds; and by virtue of that office is sole Judge
of the _District_ Court of the United States, for the District of
Columbia, which has the same jurisdiction as the other District Courts
of the United States have.

He has published nine volumes of Reports of cases in the Supreme Court
of the United States, a Memoir of the life, character, and writings of
President John Adams, (70 pages,) read before the Columbian Institute,
March 16, 1827, and an Address upon the subject of Temperance, in 1831,
a small pamphlet.

Judge Cranch is a Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences,
and of the American Antiquarian Society. He has received also the
degree of Doctor of Laws from Harvard College.


PROFESSOR EBENEZER ADAMS OF HANOVER, N. H.

PROFESSOR ADAMS was the son of Ephraim Adams of New Ipswich, N. H.,
who was a highly respectable man, having been a magistrate, an officer
in the church, and a representative of the town. He was born in that
place, Oct. 2, 1765. The father was a native of Ipswich, Ms., born in
that part of the town which is now Hamilton. He was brought up on the
farm which was first occupied by his ancestor, one of the eight sons
of Henry Adams, who came to this country from Devonshire, England, and
settled in that part of Braintree now called Quincy, about the year
1630. The father of Dea. Adams, whose baptismal name was Thomas, was
either the grandson or great-grandson of this ancestor. The first wife
of Dea. Adams was Rebecca, daughter of James Locke, who was a native of
Woburn, Ms., and died in Ashby, Ms. The name of his second wife is not
known. The children of Dea. Adams were fifteen in number.

The subject of this sketch fitted for college at the Academy in New
Ipswich, under the care of Hon. John Hubbard, who was afterwards
Professor in Dartmouth College. Having graduated at that institution
in 1791, with high reputation as a scholar, especially in mathematics
and philosophy, he went immediately into the Academy at Leicester, Ms.,
where he spent fifteen years, fourteen of which he was the Principal.
In 1806, he took charge of the Academy at Portland, Me., which he
left after a year and a half, having accepted the Professorship of
Mathematics in Phillips Academy, Exeter. In 1809 he was appointed
Professor of the Languages in Dartmouth College, and in 1810, upon
the death of Professor Hubbard, he was transferred to the department
of Mathematics and Natural Philosophy, and continued in that office
until 1833--twenty-three years--when he was induced by advancing age
and infirmities to resign all active and responsible service in the
College; his connection with it since being simply that of Professor
Emeritus, which continued until his death.

Professor Adams possessed great constitutional energies, both physical
and mental. These he carried into active life. As an instructor he was
able and accurate. No one surpassed him in faithfulness, and hence it
was proverbial that he made thorough scholars. In the Languages he was
good, but in Mathematics and Philosophy he excelled as a teacher.

As would naturally be expected, he took a lively interest in all
efforts made to promote the cause of literature, the sciences, and the
arts, and was connected with several literary associations. He was an
original Member of the Northern Academy of Arts and Sciences, and took
an active part at the time of its formation, as presiding officer. He
was also a Member of the New Hampshire Historical Society, the American
Antiquarian Society, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the
Maryland Academy of Sciences and Literature, and the Royal Society of
Northern Antiquaries, Copenhagen. He was a Trustee of Kimball Union
Academy in Plainfield, and sustained the office of President of the
Board of Trustees twenty years, and, for about as long a time, he was
President of the New Hampshire Bible Society.

Professor Adams was twice married. His first wife was Alice Frink,
daughter of Dr. John Frink, a distinguished physician of Rutland, Ms.,
by whom he had five children, Alice A., Adeline A., John, Charles
A. and Harriet R., of whom John only is now living. He graduated at
Dartmouth College in 1817, and is now a practising attorney in Mobile,
Ala. His second wife was Beulah Minot, daughter of Dr. Timothy Minot
of Concord, Ms. By her he had two children, Eliza M. and Ebenezer. The
daughter is now the wife of Prof. Ira Young. Ebenezer was graduated at
Dartmouth College in 1831, and died in July, 1837. Of seven children,
therefore, two only survive. The last Mrs. Adams still lives, and
resides with her daughter, Mrs. Young.

Professor Adams "was one of the few remaining old school citizens
and scholars of New England, and was hardly surpassed by any of that
venerable class of men in intelligence, patriotism, and Christian
virtue." He possessed a well balanced mind, "was judicious,
magnanimous, and firm." He died calm and happy in the triumphs
of religion, August 15, 1841, in the 76th year of his age, from
ossification of the heart.


HON. JAMES SAVAGE OF BOSTON.

The subject of this sketch was born July 11, 1784, in Boston, where his
progenitors since 1635 have always lived. His father was Habijah, and
his mother, Elizabeth, daughter of John Tudor. Of eight children, five
sons and three daughters, born before him, two sons died in infancy;
the rest attained full age, as did also two sons younger than himself.

His mother died before he arrived at his fourth year of age; and his
father, by reason of ill health, was unable to take charge of him in
his early education. The Rev. Dr. Thacher preached on the occasion
of his mother's death from Psalms xxvii: 10--"_When my father and my
mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up._"

The father of Mr. Savage was son of Thomas, by his first wife, Deborah
Briggs, who was, it is believed, a granddaughter of John Cushing, one
of the Judges of the Superior Court of the Province of Massachusetts
Bay. John, his father's elder brother, was father of Thomas of York,
Me., from whom descended the Savages in Bangor. His grandfather's
second wife was Sarah Cheever, who survived him nearly fifty-one years.
One of their children was the late Ezekiel Savage, Esq., of Salem, H.
C. 1778, father of Rev. Thomas Savage of Bedford, N. H., H. C. 1813,
and several other children, of whom one, Sarah, distinguished herself
by the composition of some interesting books.

Habijah, father of Mr. Savage's grandfather Thomas, was educated at
Harvard College, where he received his first degree, in 1695. He
married Hannah, who had been a short time widow of ---- Anderson. She
was a daughter of Samuel Phillips, distinguished among booksellers in
Boston one hundred and fifty years ago, as John Dunton mentions in the
entertaining account of his visit to our country, published in his
"Life and Errors." Arthur, a younger brother of his great-grandfather,
married another daughter of Mr. Phillips, and one of their children was
Samuel Phillips Savage, father of the late Samuel Savage, H. C. 1766,
of Barnstable.

Thomas, father of the last named Habijah, born 1640, was second child
of Thomas, who emigrated from England. His mother was Faith, daughter
of William and the celebrated Ann Hutchinson, who was a _speaking_
if not a _ruling_ elder in the First Church in Boston. He married
Elizabeth, daughter of Joshua Scottow, author of two curious tracts in
the latter part of the 17th century. With two of his brothers, Ephraim,
H. C. 1662, and Perez, he served at various times and places in King
Philip's war, in the early part of which, their father was in the chief
command of the forces of the Colony of Massachusetts. Ephraim gained
some reputation in command of one of the vessels of the fleet, in the
daring but disastrous expedition from Boston against Quebec, by Sir
William Phips, in 1690, and Thomas was at the head of one of the three
regiments engaged in it, and wrote a brief and modest account of the
service, published the following year at London. He died July 2, 1705.

Mr. Savage's great-great-great-grandfather, Thomas, was a man of high
public spirit. Disgusted with the treatment of the majority towards
Wheelwright and other friends of Sir Henry Vane, whom he had perhaps
accompanied from England, he, with Gov. Coddington and others, removed
in 1638, and purchased Rhode Island. He soon returned, however, to
Boston, recovered his former standing with early friends, and was
often one of the representatives of the town, and, in the trying times
of 1665, was respected for his moderation. He was one of those who
undertook, in 1673, to erect a barricade in the harbor, for security
against a fleet then expected from Holland. Out of this barricade grew,
in less than forty years, the Long Wharf, a small portion of which has
continued ever since the property of some members of the family. He was
Speaker of the Deputies in 1659, and again after an interval of eleven
years, and in 1680 was chosen by the colony one of the Assistants, in
which station he died, Feb. 14, 1682, aged 75. A funeral sermon on that
event is among the printed works of Rev. Samuel Willard, pastor of the
_third_ church, of which Major Savage was one of the founders, at the
secession occasioned by the coming of Davenport from New Haven to the
_first_. The text was, Isaiah lvii: 1.

The eldest son of this ancestor of most who bear the name on this
side of the ocean, Habijah, H. C. 1659, died in a few years, but left
children by his wife, daughter of Edward Tyng, one of the Assistants.
A grandchild of these parents removed from Boston, early in the last
century, to Charleston, S. C., where he is commemorated by Dr. Ramsay,
in his History of the Independent Church in that city. Descendants have
been known in different parts of South Carolina and Georgia. The late
Judge Clay of the latter state, afterwards pastor of the first Baptist
Church in Boston, married one, and his son, Thomas Savage Clay, H. C.
1819, is highly respected for his Christian philanthropy.

In the catalogue of the sons of Harvard are numbered eleven lineal
descendants of the first Thomas, of whom six have been noticed. John,
1694, was son of Ephraim; Habijah, 1723, was either son or nephew
of Habijah; John, 1810, and James Rodon, 1812, were sons of William
Savage, Esq., of Jamaica, son of Samuel Phillips Savage, before
mentioned.

Of the progenitors of Mr. Savage, no means are possessed by which to
trace the line before the arrival of his ancestor in this country; but
a family tradition, committed to writing many years since, makes him to
have been a brother of Arthur, an English dean.

Mr. Savage fitted for college at Derby Academy, Hingham, under the
tuition of Abner Lincoln, and at Washington Academy, Machias, Me.,
instructed by Daniel P. Upton.

After graduating at Harvard University in 1803, he studied law under
the direction of the late Chief Justice Parker, Hon. Samuel Dexter, and
Hon. William Sullivan, and entered upon its practice January, 1807.

Mr. Savage has been Representative and Senator in General Court, a
Counsellor, and a Delegate to the Convention in 1820 for amending the
Constitution of the State. He has been also in the City government as
one of the Common Council and an Alderman, as well as one of the School
Committee.

In April, 1823, he married Elizabeth O., widow of James Otis Lincoln,
Esq., of Hingham. She was daughter of George Stillman of Machias, Me.,
an officer in the war of the Revolution. Their children are Emma,
Harriet, Lucy, and James.

At times letters have engaged the attention of Mr. Savage, but not
to withdraw him from the proper duties of his profession or the
service of the community in active life. He was during four or five
years associated with the gentlemen who edited the (Boston) Monthly
Anthology, and contributed articles for that work, as he has also for
the North American Review. At the request of the municipal authorities
of Boston, he delivered an oration, July 4, 1811. The compilation of
the Colonial and Provincial Laws of Massachusetts, published under the
title of Ancient Charters, according to direction of General Court,
by the late Hon. Nathan Dane, Judge Prescott, and Judge Story, was by
these gentlemen confided to his supervision while passing through the
press. The Index to the work was prepared by him. He superintended
an edition of Paley's Works; and the presswork of the ten volumes of
American State Papers, selected by Hon. John Q. Adams, under authority
of Congress. But Mr. Savage's greatest effort of this nature was his
edition of Gov. Winthrop's History of New England, with notes.

This is a work of much labor and value. It is understood that he has in
contemplation a new edition of Farmer's Genealogical Register of the
First Settlers of New England.

Mr. Savage was more than twenty years Secretary or Treasurer of the
first Savings Bank in Boston, and nineteen years Treasurer of the
Massachusetts Historical Society, of which he is now the President.
He is a Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, and has
received the degree of LL. D. at Harvard College.

Forty-one years since, for the benefit of his health, he, in company
with his relative and friend, William Tudor, Jr., visited the islands
of Martinique, Dominique, St. Thomas, St. Domingo, and Jamaica. Since,
he has been to Demerara, and five years ago, he went to England, with
a view of visiting his fathers' sepulchres, and of enjoying himself in
the father-land.


HON. LEVI WOODBURY OF PORTSMOUTH, N. H.

LEVI WOODBURY was born at Francestown, N. H., Dec. 22, 1789, where his
father, the Hon. Peter Woodbury, resided. _He_ was born in Beverly,
Ms., in 1767, removed to New Hampshire with his father, and, when
he entered upon the active business of life for himself, engaged in
mercantile and agricultural pursuits, and was about fifteen years a
Representative, and two years a Senator, in the State Legislature.
He died in 1834. _He_ was son of Peter Woodbury, who was born March
28, 1738, at Beverly, and married there, and in 1773 removed to Mont
Vernon, then a part of Amherst, N. H. He spent the last twenty years
of his life at Antrim, with his youngest son, Mark Woodbury, Esq.,
where he died, March, 1819, aged 85. _His_ father was Josiah Woodbury
of Beverly, who was born June 15, 1682, and lived in the Second or
Upper Parish. The father of Josiah was Peter, who was born in 1640,
made a freeman in 1668, and elected a Representative in 1689. He filled
the office of deacon, and died July 5, 1704, aged 64. His father was
Humphrey Woodbury, who was born in 1609, came to New England with his
father, John Woodbury, in 1628, was admitted to the church in 1648, was
a member of the First Church in Beverly, at its formation, was chosen
deacon in 1668, and was living in 1681. John Woodbury, who was one of
the original settlers of Beverly, came from Somersetshire, England,
under the direction of the Dorchester company, which established itself
at Cape Ann about 1624. He came to Salem in 1626, was made a freeman
in 1630, and in 1635 was chosen a Deputy to General Court. He was an
original member of the First Church in Salem. In 1636, he received a
grant of two hundred acres of land on Bass river. He died in 1641.

Mr. Woodbury's mother was Mary Woodbury, daughter of James Woodbury,
who was born in Beverly, but removed to Mont Vernon, N. H., in 1782.
He was a subaltern in Col. Robert Rogers' regiment of Rangers, and was
near Wolfe when he fell at the storming of Quebec. The sword he used
in that service is now in the possession of a descendant. He had eight
children, all daughters, and died at Francestown, March, 1823, aged 86.

The subject of this sketch was prepared for college in part at New
Ipswich Academy, N. H., with Mr. Mulliken, but chiefly under the
instruction of Hon. John Vose, the distinguished Preceptor of Atkinson
Academy. In 1805 he entered Dartmouth College, where he remained
till 1809, when he graduated with high reputation for talents and
acquirements.

Immediately after leaving college he commenced the study of law,
spending one year at the Law School of Judges Reeve and Gould, at
Litchfield, Ct., and the residue of his preparatory course with Hon.
S. Dana of Boston, Judge Smith of Exeter, and James Walker, Esq., of
Francestown. In 1812 he opened an office in his native place, where he
remained till 1819. In 1816 he was elected Clerk of the State Senate,
and, in the year following, was appointed Judge of the Superior Court.
This appointment to the bench of the highest judicial tribunal of
the state, drew general attention to the manner in which the duties
were discharged. Ample testimony, however, of the qualifications of
Judge Woodbury may be found in the first two volumes of New Hampshire
Reports. In 1819, he removed to Portsmouth, the commercial capital of
New Hampshire, where he continues to reside. In 1823 he was chosen
Governor of the State, and when his term of office expired, he returned
to the practice of his profession. In 1825 he was chosen Representative
from Portsmouth, and on the meeting of the Legislature, he was elected
Speaker of the House. Among the last acts of the session was the choice
of Gov. Woodbury to fill a vacancy which had occurred in the Senate
of the United States. At the commencement of the session in 1825-6,
he took his seat in the Senate, and during the six years succeeding,
his name was connected with the most important measures discussed in
that body. His term of service expired on the 4th of March, and four
days after, he was chosen State Senator for the district in which he
resided. In April following, he was invited by President Jackson to
become Secretary of the Navy, which office he was induced to accept,
having declined that of State Senator. July 4, 1834, he was appointed
Secretary of the Treasury, in which capacity he served till March 3,
1841. During this time, he was appointed Chief Justice of the Superior
Court of New Hampshire, but declined the office. In 1841, he was again
chosen U. S. Senator from New Hampshire, which office he held till
September, 1845, when he was appointed an Associate Justice of the
U. S. Supreme Court. In the summer previous, the office of Minister
to England was tendered to him, but he refused it on account of the
situation of his family.

In June, 1819, Judge Woodbury was married to Eliza W. Clapp, daughter
of Hon. Asa Clapp of Portland, Me. They have five children: Charles
Levi, who is now an attorney in Boston, Mary Elizabeth, Frances
Anstris, Virginia Lafayette, and Ellen Carolina. The eldest is married
to the Hon. Montgomery Blair of St. Louis, Mo.

Judge Woodbury has published one volume of Law Reports in connection
with Judge Richardson, also speeches, pamphlets, and reports relating
to the various official duties he has performed, besides numerous
literary addresses. He has received the degree of Doctor of Laws at the
Wesleyan University in Connecticut, and at Dartmouth College in New
Hampshire. He is also a member of various literary societies.

The brothers and sisters of Judge Woodbury are Peter P. Woodbury, M.
D., of Bedford, N. H., now Vice-President of the New Hampshire Medical
Society; Rev. James Trask Woodbury of Acton, Ms., formerly an attorney;
Jesse Woodbury, Esq., who resides on the paternal estate; George
Washington Woodbury, M. D., Yazoo county, Mississippi; Mrs. Mary Howe,
widow of the late Luke Howe, M. D., of Jaffrey, N. H.; Mrs. Anstris B.
Eastman, wife of Hon. Nehemiah Eastman of Farmington, N. H., formerly
Member of Congress; Mrs. Martha W. Grimes of Quincy, Ms., widow of
the late Thomas Grimes, merchant, of Windsor, Vt.; Mrs. Hannah T.
Barnes, wife of Isaac O. Barnes, Esq., of Boston, U. S. Marshal for the
District of Massachusetts; Mrs. Harriet Dodge, wife of Perley Dodge,
Esq., an attorney at Amherst, N. H.; Mrs. Adeline Bunnelle, wife of
Edwin F. Bunnelle, Esq., of Boston, clerk in the Custom House.


HON. SAMUEL S. WILDE OF BOSTON.

SAMUEL SUMNER WILDE was born in Taunton, Feb. 5, 1771. His father's
name was Daniel, who was born in Braintree in 1718, and died in 1792.
_His_ father, if not born in England and brought over by his father
when a child, was born in Braintree.

The father of the subject of this sketch, soon after arriving at the
age of 21, settled in Taunton, where he continued until the time of his
death. He was a farmer and a pious man, and for many years was one of
the deacons of the only Congregational Church then in that town. He was
very fond of sacred music, and had a fine voice, well cultivated, and,
for those days, he had a competent degree of skill and knowledge of the
science to render him an acceptable leader of the choir in the church,
and was a leader long before he was chosen deacon. In his family
devotions he always read a chapter in the Bible, sung a hymn in which
some of the family joined, and concluded with a prayer. He was twice
married. His first wife was the daughter of Deacon Staples of Taunton,
grandfather of Mr. Staples, a lawyer of considerable eminence in New
York.

His second wife, the mother of Samuel S., was the only child of Deacon
Samuel Sumner, also of Taunton. Dea. Sumner was well educated for one
who had not received a collegiate course of instruction, had a taste
for study, and thought much of learning and learned men. He died
when Samuel S., who was his only grandson, was two years old, and
bequeathed to him a lot of land, which he authorized his father to
sell, and to expend the proceeds in giving him a college education,
if he should, at a proper age, manifest any taste and talents, which
would probably render such an education useful to him. He was a warm
Whig and a friend to the liberties of the people; and it was probably
owing to discussions about the Stamp Act and other difficulties with
England, and his reflections on the inalienable rights of man, that he
emancipated a female slave, about the year 1769 or 1770. She, however,
always continued in the family upon wages, until her death. Dea. Sumner
was a distant relation of Gov. Sumner and also of the Rev. Dr. Sumner,
long the minister of Shrewsbury in the county of Worcester.

The mother of Samuel S. was a most excellent woman, and distinguished
for her mental endowments, piety, and zeal in the cause of religion.

The subject of this sketch fitted for college under the direction
of Rev. Ephraim Judson, the minister of Taunton, and entered the
Sophomore class at Dartmouth College, in 1786, where he graduated
in 1789. He read law in Taunton with David L. Barnes, Esq., who was
afterwards Judge of the District Court of the United States for the
state of Rhode Island. In September, 1792, he was admitted to the
bar, and the same year was married to Eunice Cobb, a daughter of the
late Gen. Cobb of Taunton. He immediately removed to Maine, and first
commenced practice in Waldoborough in the county of Lincoln, where
he remained only two years, and then removed to the adjoining town
of Warren, where he resided five years, when, in 1799, he removed to
Hallowell. He represented the town of Warren two years in the House of
Representatives; but after his removal to Hallowell, he devoted himself
wholly to his profession. He was, however, twice chosen one of the
Electors of President and Vice-President of the United States, and in
1814 was elected a State Counsellor. He was also one of the Delegates
to the famous Hartford Convention. In June, 1815, he was appointed
Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, which office
he now holds. He was a member from Newburyport of the Convention for
revising the Constitution of the state, having removed from Hallowell
to that place in 1820. In 1831 he removed to Boston, where he still
resides.

The wife of Judge Wilde deceased June 6, 1826. Their children were
nine, of whom only four survive. The two eldest sons died unmarried.
The eldest daughter, Eunice, married Hon. William Emmons of Augusta,
Me., a son of Rev. Dr. Emmons of Franklin, Ms. She died in 1821,
leaving two daughters, one of whom has since deceased, and the other
is the wife of Rev. Mr. Tappan of Hampden, Me., son of Rev. Dr. Tappan
of Augusta, Me. The second daughter, Eleanor Bradish, married I. W.
Mellen, Esq., son of Rev. Mr. Mellen of Cambridge. They are both dead.
Mrs. Mellen died in March, 1838, leaving three children. The third
daughter, Caroline, married Hon. Caleb Cushing of Newburyport, and
died in 1832. The eldest surviving son, George Cobb, Esq., an attorney
at law, is Clerk of the Courts in Suffolk county, is married, and has
two children. The second surviving son, Henry Jackson, is married, and
has two children, and is now settled in Washington, D. C. The youngest
son is unmarried. The only surviving daughter was first married to
Frederick W. Doane of Boston, and is now the wife of Robert Farley,
also, of Boston.

Judge Wilde has been in his present office nearly thirty-two years, a
longer time it is believed than any individual ever held that office
before,[32] and his judicial career has uniformly been characterized by
legal learning and stern integrity. His personal character is marked by
uncommon frankness and great simplicity of manners.

He has received the degree of Doctor of Laws from Bowdoin and Harvard
Colleges, and he is also a Member of the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, and some other literary associations.


NATHANIEL WRIGHT, ESQ., OF CINCINNATI, OHIO.

NATHANIEL WRIGHT was born Jan. 28, 1789, in the east parish of Hanover,
N. H. The family residence was on the highlands adjoining the western
base of Moose mountain, over which his father's farm extended. From
some of the fields can be seen, spread out in the distance, nearly half
the state of Vermont, rising in regular gradation from the Connecticut
river, with every variety of cottage, field, woodland, and hill, to the
summits of the Green Mountains, Killington Peak, and Camel's Rump, in
the distant horizon. His parents, Nathaniel Wright and Mary Page, were
originally from Coventry in the state of Connecticut. The name of his
paternal grandfather was the same with that of his father; but we are
not able to trace back the genealogy further. They were all farmers by
occupation. His father was one of the first settlers of Hanover, and
took possession of his farm there, while it was a perfect wilderness,
the occupancy of which he had to contest with wild beasts. The sylvan
adventures of that period were, no doubt, the topic of many a fireside
tale of his childhood. His mother was sister of the father of Harlan
Page, distinguished for his active piety, and of tract-distribution
memory.

Mr. Wright began fitting for college in 1806. The larger part of his
preparatory studies were with the Rev. Eden Burroughs, D. D., the
parish minister, long one of the Trustees of Dartmouth College, and
celebrated as the father of the notorious Stephen Burroughs, who
died in Canada, a Catholic priest. He entered the Freshman class of
Dartmouth College at the commencement of 1807, and graduated in 1811.
After graduating, he spent three years or more in teaching, being part
of that time in charge of the Portland Academy, Maine, and part of the
time in charge of a select class of boys in the same place; and began
there the study of law. He then spent a year as private tutor in a
family in Virginia, reading law in the mean time, and was admitted to
the bar in that state. In July, 1817, he went to Cincinnati, where,
after spending some time in an office to familiarize himself with
local practice, he was admitted to the bar in November, 1817, and
commenced the practice in 1818. For a few years, he practised in the
Federal Courts, and in different parts of the state; but finding the
city practice the most profitable, as well as most pleasant, he soon
confined himself to that, and continued it with so much labor and
assiduity, that, in 1839 and 1840, he found his health giving way under
the effects of it, and in the latter year, withdrew from the practice.
Of his success in the practice, he has had no reason to complain. And
in talents and legal acquirements, he has ranked with the first in the
state.

He has been solicited at different times to become a candidate for
Judge of the Supreme Court of Ohio, and for Member of Congress; but has
uniformly refused all nominations for political office, preferring a
private life to all others.

In April, 1820, he married Caroline Augusta Thew, a niece of the Hon.
Jacob Burnet of Cincinnati. Her mother was a daughter of Dr. William
Burnet of Newark, N. J., a surgeon in the army in the Revolutionary
war, and a man of distinction in that state. Her parents being both
dead, she went from Newark to Cincinnati with Judge Burnet's family, in
1815.

The children of these parents are eight in number: Mary Thew, Caroline
Augusta, Daniel Thew, Eliza Burnet, Augusta Caroline, Louisa,
Nathaniel, and William Burnet. Of these, Caroline Augusta and Augusta
Caroline died, the former at five, the latter at three years of age.

Mr. Wright has published nothing, that can properly be called a book;
yet many of his writings have appeared in public print in various
forms. His name appears at the head of some important arguments in the
Law Reports of Ohio, during the period of his practice; and some of his
occasional addresses have been printed. In early life he was a lover of
poetry, and not unfrequently attempted to honor the Muses; and this he
did always with applause.

When Mr. Wright went to Cincinnati, then having five or six thousand
inhabitants, he sat down patiently with the young at the foot of the
bar, went on through a generation of the profession, till he stood
at its head; and saw the city grown up to a population of 80,000,
himself standing among a few _old_ respectable inhabitants, easy
in circumstances, with a very happy family around him, and highly
respected by the community.--The late Rev. Chester Wright, a graduate
at Middlebury College in 1805, and of Montpelier, Vt., was his
half-brother.


HON. WILLIAM D. WILLIAMSON OF BANGOR, ME.

WILLIAM DURKEE WILLIAMSON is supposed to be a descendant, in the sixth
generation, of one who was among the earliest settlers in the Plymouth
Colony. For as the Annalist tells us,[33] when Gov. Winslow went to
make his first treaty with Massasoit, March 22, 1621, he was preceded
by "Captain Standish and _Mr. Williamson_," and attended by a file
of "musketeers." Nothing farther appears, in the printed narratives
of those times, concerning the man last mentioned; nor is there any
positive knowledge of his immediate posterity; though it is a report
of tradition, that one of his name had command of a company in King
Philip's war, in 1675-6, who might have been his son. But, however
this may have been, certain it is, that men of his name in succeeding
generations have exhibited a predilection for military tactics; and
that in Major Benjamin Church's fifth expedition eastward, 1704,
Captain _Caleb Williamson_ commanded a company of volunteers from
Plymouth Colony. He had one brother, whose name was _George_, and the
place of their residence was Harwich, in the county of Barnstable. It
is said there was another of the family, or kindred, perhaps a brother,
by the name of _Samuel_, who settled at Hartford in Connecticut, but as
he left no son, his name at his death sank into oblivion.

George Williamson, above named, married, at Harwich, the daughter of a
Mr. Crisp; and they had two sons, George and Caleb, and five daughters.
The elder son was murdered by a highwayman, and left no child; the
younger, born at that place, 1716, married Sarah Ransom, and settled at
Middleborough in the county of Plymouth; whose children were six sons
and three daughters. Though five of the sons were married, only two of
them, Caleb and George, left issue. The latter, being the fifth son,
born in 1754, who was the father of the subject of this sketch, removed
with his father's family at the commencement of the Revolutionary war,
to Canterbury, Ct., and married Mary Foster of that place, a niece of
Rev. Jacob Foster, formerly a minister of Berwick, Me. Their children
were four sons and four daughters. The sons are William D., the subject
of this sketch; George, a farmer at Pittston; and Joseph, a lawyer
at Belfast, a graduate at Vermont University, and President of the
Senate, in the Legislature of Maine. Their father was a soldier in the
Revolution, and a captain of artillery, some years after the peace.
In 1793, he removed from Canterbury, where his sons were born, to
Amherst, Ms., and finally died at Bangor, in 1822, aged 68 years.

William D., his eldest son, entered Williams College, in 1800; but
finished his studies at Brown University, R. I., where he was graduated
in 1804. As his father was a farmer in moderate circumstances, and
himself the eldest of eight children, he was under the necessity of
teaching a school several winters, to defray his college expenses.
He read law with Hon. S. F. Dickinson of Amherst, till the spring of
1807, when he took up his residence in Bangor, Me., where he completed
his professional studies with J. McGaw, Esq., being admitted to the
bar in November of that year. Jan. 14, 1808, he was commissioned by
Gov. Sullivan Attorney for the county of Hancock, an office held by
him about eight years, when the county was divided. In 1816, he was
elected to the Senate of Massachusetts, Maine being then a part of the
Commonwealth; and received successive elections, till the separation in
1820. Though as a political man, his sentiments were of a democratic
character, adverse to the majority in each of the legislative branches,
he was Chairman of the Committee of Eastern Lands, three years. He
was President of the first Senate in the new state of Maine; and the
appointment of Gov. King as a Commissioner on the Spanish Claims,
brought him into the Executive Chair, about six months of the political
year. In the meantime, he was elected a Member of Congress. After he
left the field of legislation he was appointed a Judge of Probate for
his county, a Justice of Peace through the state, and President of
Bangor Bank.

Judge Williamson was thrice married. He was first connected in marriage
with J. M. Rice, an orphan, the niece of Gen. Montague of Amherst,
whose home was hers. Five children were the fruits of this marriage,
one of whom, an only son, a promising youth, died in 1832, at the close
of his Junior year in Bowdoin College. His second wife was the eldest
daughter of Judge Phinehas White of Putney, Vt., and his third was the
only surviving daughter of the late E. Emerson, Esq., York, Me.

Judge Williamson was fond of literary pursuits generally, but
particularly of historical research. He wrote and published a number of
articles on various subjects, in different periodicals. His great work,
however, which cost him many years of labor, was his History of Maine,
in two large octavo volumes. He died May 27, 1846.

FOOTNOTES:

[31] His parents' residence at that time was in Boston.

[32] Judge Benjamin Lynde was on the bench about the same length of
time, from 1712 to 1744.

[33] See Prince's Annals, 101.--Purchas' Pilgrims, B. X. chap. 4.--Vol
VIII. Coll. Mass. Hist. Soc., 229.




THE FATHERS OF NEW ENGLAND.


    "They [the Fathers of N. E.] were mostly men of good estates
    and families, of liberal education, and of large experience;
    but they chiefly excelled in piety to God, in zeal for the
    purity of his worship, reverence for his glorious name, and
    strict observance of his holy Sabbaths; in their respect
    and maintenance of an unblemished ministry; the spread of
    knowledge, learning, good order, and quiet through the land,
    a reign of righteousness, and the welfare of this people; and
    the making and executing wholesome laws for all these blessed
    ends."--_Rev. Thomas Prince's Election Sermon_, 1730.




GOVERNOR HINCKLEY'S VERSES ON THE DEATH OF HIS SECOND CONSORT.


    [Thomas Hinckley was the last Governor of the Plymouth Colony,
    which office he held, except during the interruption by
    Andros, from 1680 to 1692, when that colony was joined to the
    Massachusetts colony. He was a man of worth and piety. The
    following lines, composed by him on the death of his second
    wife, are copied from one of three volumes of the manuscripts
    of Rev. Thomas Prince, which are now in the possession of the
    Rev. Chandler Robbins of this city.

    It is hardly necessary to inform our readers, that Thomas
    Prince, colleague pastor of the Old South Church in Boston
    from Oct. 1, 1718, to Oct. 22, 1758, was a most diligent and
    careful collector of public and private papers, relating to
    the religious and civil history of New England, and that many
    of his valuable books and manuscripts have been deposited
    by the church to which he ministered, in the library of the
    Massachusetts Historical Society.

    The following brief sketch of the connection between Thomas
    Prince and Gov. Hinckley, and of some of the descendants of the
    latter, may be appropriate as an introduction to this poetic
    effusion.

    In the manuscript volume above referred to, Rev. Thomas Prince
    has recorded a genealogical table prepared by himself, in which
    he states that he was "the fourth son of Samuel Prince, Esq.,
    of Sandwich, who was the son of Elder John Prince, who came
    over in 1633, and settled first at Watertown and afterwards
    at Hull, who was the eldest son of Rev. John Prince of East
    Shefford, in Berkshire, Eng., who was born of honorable
    parents, educated in the University of Oxford, and was one of
    the Puritan ministers of the Church of England who _in part
    conformed_."

    The father of Rev. Thomas Prince, Samuel Prince, Esq., married
    in 1686, for his second wife, Mercy Hinckley, the eldest
    daughter of Governor Hinckley by his second wife.[34] They had
    ten children; namely, Thomas, Mary, Enoch, John, Joseph, Moses,
    Nathan, Mercy, Alice, Benjamin.

    Thomas married Deborah Denny. One of their daughters became the
    wife of Lieut. Governor Gill.

    Mary married the Rev. Peter Thatcher.

    Moses married Jane Bethune. Their daughter, Jane Prince, was
    consort of the Rev. Chandler Robbins, D. D., of Plymouth, Ms.,
    grandfather of the Rev. Chandler Robbins of Boston, of whom we
    have obtained this relic of antiquity.]

       *       *       *       *       *

    Pity me O my friends and for me Pray
    To him yᵗ can supply what's taken away.
    My crown is fallen from my Head, and wo,
    Wo unto me yᵗ I have sinned so,
    As to provoke yᵉ Lord to show such Ire
    Wʰ I deserve 'gainst me should burn like Fire.
    God righteous is in all yᵗ He hath done
    Yea good in lending Her to me so long.
    A Blessing rich _Forty three years_ and more:
    Had I been wise to have improved such store
    Of Gifts and Grace wherewith she was endu'd
    I might in Grace have also much improv'd.
    How prompt in heavenly Discourse was she,
    That to her own and others good might be!
    Out of her store came things both new and old
    Wʰ she had read, or thought, or had been told.
    How great my Bond to God in Thankfulness,
    For such a Gift, for all my worthlessness.
      The _only child_ her _gracious mother_ bare,
    Obtain'd of God as a Return of Prayer:
    For wʰ she with her Friends employ'd a Day,
    In private, and soon found it good to pray
    Unto yᵉ God of Nature and of Grace,
    Who thus approv'd their seeking of his Face,
    In forming this fair child to shew his Praise:
    Endowed with virtues in her early Days
    Wʰ grew and shine'd in young and riper age,
    And to her Maker's Praise did much engage
    All those wᵒ knew Her both of late and old,
    And prove'd as diverse godly wise foretold.
      She by her wisdom built yᵉ House and by
    Her prudent care kept all in such a way
    And in such order, so as nought might be      }
    A Let to worship in the Family                }
    Or cause Distraction on God's holy day.       }
    Yea both at _Morn_ and _even_, as was need
    She did in _Household-worship_ always lead
    Her Family, while in her widow-state,
    And in my absence since she was my mate.
    Whose good example may rebuke all Those
    Who slight this Duty and Themselves expose
    Unto yᵗ wrath of God wʰ hangs o'er all
    Those Familes wʰ on Him do not call.
    To rise up _very early_ was her way,            }
    Enter her closet strait, to read and pray,      }
    And then to call and raise her Family,          }
    And liv'd to see a Blessing great upon
    Her Prayers and prudent Education
    Of children such a number for yᵉ Lord,
    Under his gracious covenant and word,
    That now may say, I am, thro grace divine,
    Thy Servant, Daughter, Son, of Handmaid thine.
      She highly prized a _Gospel Ministry_,
    For its support was an example high,
    And while a widow chose yᵉ town shou'd say              }
    What was her Part lest self from Right shou'd sway      }
    And allways gave more than her Rate away,               }
    Yea ever first wou'd pay _that pious due_,           }
    Then other Debts, and on the Residue                 }
    Wou'd wisely live and help yᵉ Poor she knew.         }
    Nor ever any want she found thereby,
    And counselled her Friends yᵉ like to try:
    But if they wou'd till last let _That_ alone,
    They wou'd find nought to pay't, all wou'd be gone:
    Which some have try'd, and found what she said True,
    And so God was not robbed of his Due.
      As by God's Grace she lived _piously_
    So by the same she lived _righteously_:
    Chusing yᵗ she and hers might wrongs receiv,
    Than even yᵉ least to others give:
    Allways a Pattern of _Sobriety_,             }
    Meek, lowly, peacefull, prone to _charity_   }
    And freely given to Hospitality,             }
    Behaved wisely in a perfect way,
    Both in yᵉ brightest and yᵉ darkest Day.
    She came in nothing short with count of many
    Of highest Praise of Tongue or Pen of any.
      Great cause we have of pious Thankfullness;
    For that tho sharpest Pains did her distress
    For _six weeks_ allmost constantly, yᵗ she
    Could take no Rest nor in yᵉ night nor Day;
    Yet God preserv'd her mind and senses clear,
    With exercise of Grace, yᵗ we cou'd hear
    Not the least murmuring nor impatient word,
    But meek submission to yᵉ Sovereign Lord:
    Full of heart-melting Prayer and savoury words
    Which Joy and wonderment to all affords
    Whose Hearts were mov'd to leav their Homes and see
    And help Her in her great extremity.
      Her last words were, come _dear Lord Jesus, come
    And take me quickly to thy Bosom home_:
    And in few minutes had her Soul's Desire
    With Him whom she did love with Heart intire.
    Death was no Terrour unto Her nor Fear,
    No Ghastliness did in her Face appear:
    But sweet composure in her Life and Death       }
    When her dear soul she in her final Breath      }
    Resigned to Him whom she beheld in Faith:       }
    Whose own she was and with Him long'd to be
    Where she is free from sin and misery:
    She enter'd into perfect, endless Rest,
    And with yᵉ blest above is ever blest.
      So that we have no reason to repine            }
    But thankfully and humbly to resign              }
    To his most wise and righteous hand therein      }
    Nor mourn for Her in Plenitude of Joy,
    But for ourselves whom evils still annoy.
    As a great Loss to all, yᵉ wisest deem,
    Then sure to me and mine a Loss extream;
    Now she has left the gap, is made a way
    For evils to bear on us every Day:
    Wʰ our Iniquities deserved have,
    Unless yᵉ Lord please, as I humbly crave,
    To give Repentance and Remission free
    Of all our sins; of mine especially,
    My great Defects in point of gratitude
    In prizing and improving such a good:
    Wʰ as a _second_ miracle of grace,
    After the first who no less Pious was
    And lovely _consort_. Both free gifts most rare
    And Both in answer unto humble Prayer.
      As soon as I my will resigned so
    To God, as to be free yᵗ he shou'd do
    As most for his own glory he shou'd see;
    Then did their several Relatives agree
    To say, They had oppos'd our match so long,
    They neither dared nor wou'd it more prolong:
    Wʰ was so far above all expectation
    As made us to admire the Dispensation.
      Yet that such wondrous works I cou'd forget,
    Does my Offences greatly aggravete:
    Which has so much dishonored his Name
    As justly may me fill with grief and shame
    And oh yᵗ by his grace enabling me,        }
    I may with Hate, yea self-abhorrency       }
    Turn from all sin and unto JESUS flee      }
    Whose meritorious and precious blood
    Can clease from sin and reconcile to God.
      O may He be most highly priz'd by me
    And as most precious may embraced be.
    May I to Him eternally be join'd
    And in Him Rest and Satisfaction find:
    By his good Spirit's mighty energy           }
    My Heart be purg'd from all Impurity,        }
    And filled with all grace and sanctity:      }
    Awakened out of all my drowzy Frames
    Raised up to lively, heavenly views and aims,
    Ever composed, humble, watchful be,            }
    Especially upon God's holy Day,                }
    And when I read, hear, meditate and pray.      }
    In holy Duties never slightly be;
    As if to approach yᵉ glorious majesty
    Of God, a light and trifling thing it were;
    But ever look and speak to him with Fear:
    May bring forth much good Fruit in my last Days,
    Living and doing more unto his Praise:
    Gaining much profit by our Father's Rod,
    Who can make all work our eternal good.
      For all which mercies great I beg yᵉ Prayers
    Of all who see these drops of aged Tears,
    That I and mine may by his mighty Hand
    Be kept thro Faith unto Salvation, and
    That we may neither slack or slothful be,
    But follow Her and that blest company,
    Who thro' their faith and patience now possess
    The full completion of the Promises,
    And we may fitted be at Death to say,        }
    _Lord Jesus come and take us quick away,     }
    To be with Thee unto eternal aye!_           }
            Afflicted and distressed, but thro rich undeserved mercy
            not wholly forsaken,
                                            T. HINCKLEY.  _ætatis_ 85.

       *       *       *       *       *

    The following is an extract from one of the manuscript volumes
    of the Rev. Mr. Prince:

    "She [Mrs. Hinckley] was yᵉ only child of Mʳ Quarter-master
    _Smith_ by his 1ˢᵗ wife, formerly of _Lancashire_ in England
    and afterward of _Dorchester_ in _New England_.

    Her _Father_ had been a Quarter-master in yᵉ army of yᵉ
    Netherlands: her _mother_ a gentlewoman of a creditable
    Family and of eminent natural Powers, Piety and acquir'd
    accomplishments. Of them this Mʳˢ _Hinckley_ was Born in
    _Lancashire_ in _England_ in 1630. Her Parents living undʳ yᵉ
    ministry of yᵉ Rev. Mʳ _Richard Mather_ at Toxteth in that
    shire; they came up and brought Her wᵗʰ them to Bristol in
    order for _N. E._ in April 1635: young Mʳ _Nathaniel_ a son of
    yᵉ sd Mʳ Mather being carried on One side a Horse in a Pannier
    and this young Mʳˢ Mary on yᵉ other: as I have often heard her
    say.

    May 23, 1635; She with her father and mother, yᵉ sd Rev. Mʳ
    _Richard Mather_ and wife, yʳ sons _Samuel_ and _Nathaniel_, Mʳ
    _Jonathan Mitchell_ then about 11 years of age, &c. set sail
    from _Bristol_. In yᵉ night between Aug. 14 and 15 coming on yᵉ
    _N. E._ coast yʳ arose an extream Hurricane, wʳin yʸ wʳ in yᵉ
    utmost Danger and wondrously delivered [see yᵉ acct in yᵉ Life
    of yᵉ sd Mʳ _Richard Mather_ in yᵉ Magnalia] and on Aug. 17
    arrived at _Boston_.

    Her Father and others settling at _Dorchester_ and a new chh
    gathᵈ There Aug. 23, 1636, yᵉ sd Mʳ _Richard Mather_ became yʳ
    Teacher: under wᵒˢ ministry she liv'd, unless wⁿ sent to school
    at _Boston_, wʳ she enjoy'd Mʳ _Wilson_ and _Cotton's_ ministry.

    In ---- she married to Mʳ _Nathanˡ Glover_ a son of yᵉ Honᵇ
    _John Glover_ Esq: of sd Dorchester by wᵐ she had _Nathaniel_
    and _Ann_. And then this Husband Dying, she remained a
    widdow till wⁿ she married yᵉ Honᵇˡ _Thomas Hinckley_ Esq.
    of _Barnstable_; whither she removed and had by Him _Mercy_,
    _Experience_, _John_, _Abigail_, _Thankfull_, _Ebenezer_ and
    _Reliance_: wᵒ all grew up and married; and all but _Ebenezer_
    before she died.

    At _Barnstable_ she to yᵉ Day of her Death appear'd and shone
    in yᵉ eyes of all, as yᵉ loveliest and brightest woman for
    beauty, knowledg, wisdom, majesty, accomplishments and graces
    throughout yᵉ _colony_, and there her fˢᵗ son _Nathaniel_
    married to _Hannah_ a Dᵗʳ of sd Mʳ Hinckly, by his formʳ wf:

    Her sd Dᵗʳ _Ann_ married to Mʳ _Wᵐ Rawson_ a son of Mʳ
    secretary _Rawson_, secretary of yᵉ Massachusetts colony. Her
    Dᵗʳ _Mercy_, to Mʳ _Samuel Prince_ of _Sandwich_: _Experience_
    to Mʳ _James Whipple_ of _Barnstable_: her son _John_ to Mʳˢ
    ---- _Trott_ of _Dorchester_: her Daughter _Abigail_ to yᵉ
    Rev. Mʳ Joseph Lord 1ˢᵗ of _Dorchester_ in _South Carolina_,
    aftʳwd of Chatham, on _Cape Cod_: _Thankfull_ to yᵉ Rev. Mʳ
    _Experience Mayhew_ of _Martha's Vineyard_: _Reliance_ to yᵉ
    Rev. Mʳ _Nathaniel Stone_ of _Harwich_: and after the Decease
    of Herself and Husband yʳ son _Ebenezer_ to Mʳˢ _Stone_ of
    _Sudbury_."

    Mrs. Hinckley died July 29, 1703, in the 73rd year of her age.

FOOTNOTES:

[34] The portraits of Samuel and Mercy Prince, belonging to the Rev.
Mr. Robbins, have been temporarily deposited in the rooms of the
Massachusetts Historical Society.




BIOGRAPHICAL NOTICES OF PHYSICIANS IN KINGSTON, N. H.


The first Physician of Kingston of whom we have any definite account,
was a _Dr. Green_, who died some time in the year 1750. The vacancy
created by his death was filled by _Dr. Josiah Bartlett_ and _Dr. Aaron
Sawyer_. Dr. Sawyer soon returned to the Upper Parish of Amesbury, Ms.,
whence he originated.

_Dr. Josiah Bartlett_ was born in Amesbury, Ms., Nov. 21, 1727, O. S.
His father, whose name was Stephen Bartlett, had not much property,
but was, however, enabled to give him a medical education under the
instruction of Dr. Ordway, a respectable physician of Amesbury. Dr.
Bartlett completed his medical studies at the age of twenty-one, and
very soon after established himself at Kingston, N. H.

He married his cousin, Mary Bartlett, of Newtown, N. H., Jan. 15, 1754,
by whom he had twelve children.

His practice became very extensive, and he was eminently successful,
especially in the treatment of the _Cynanche Maligna_, or Throat
Distemper, which first made its appearance in Kingston, with great
fatality, in 1765.

Dr. Bartlett began his political career as Representative from
Kingston, in the Legislature of New Hampshire, while an English colony.

He continued to fill various offices of trust, from this time to the
year 1775, when he was elected to the Continental Congress, which met
at Philadelphia in September of that year. In July, 1776, Congress
declared the Colonies independent, and Dr. Bartlett was the first,
after the venerable Hancock, to sign this instrument of American
freedom.

In November, 1778, Dr. Bartlett returned home to attend to his domestic
affairs, which had suffered greatly from his absence. About this
time he was appointed Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas,
and was transferred to the Superior Bench in November, 1782, and
there officiated till he was appointed, in 1788, Chief Justice of the
State. Judge Bartlett sustained, during this period, many offices not
incompatible with his high judicial character, such as Counsellor, a
member of the Convention to form a State Constitution, and was one of
a Committee, with Judge Livermore and Gen. Sullivan, to revise the
Laws of the State, and a member of the Convention to ratify the new
Constitution.

In 1789, he was elected Senator to Congress, but his declining health,
and the depression of spirits consequent upon the sudden death of his
wife, early in that year, induced him to decline the duties of Senator,
and to resign the office of Chief Justice.

The people, unwilling to lose his services, elected him President of
the State, in 1790.

Dr. Bartlett took an active part in forming the New Hampshire Medical
Society, and was elected, in 1791, its first President.

In 1792, he was chosen a member to revise the Constitution of New
Hampshire, in which the title of President was dropped, and that of
Governor substituted, and he was the first Chief Magistrate with the
title of Governor. About this time, he received the honorary degrees of
M. A. and M. D. from Dartmouth College.

Gov. Bartlett filled all these stations with general satisfaction,
without ostentation; administering the laws in a mild yet decisive
manner, and setting forth the example of true republicanism.

His appointments were just, and such as met the public approbation.

The arduous duties of a professional and political life, in those
"times that tried men's souls," had impaired his health, and so
shattered a constitution, never strong, that May 19, 1795, he died
suddenly, of paralysis, leaving a very extensive circle of friends to
mourn his departure.

Gov. Bartlett was possessed of good mental powers, of a kind and
benevolent disposition, and was scrupulously just in all his dealings.

Philanthropy and benevolence were the prominent traits of his character.

His letters, still extant, show that, with a calm and childlike trust
in God, he mingled that high sense of the responsibilities which man
owes to his Creator and his fellow-man, which forms the foundation of a
truly generous, just, and noble character.

Subjoined is the testimony of one who was his neighbor and intimate
friend for many years--the Rev. Dr. Elihu Thayer. It is taken from the
Address delivered at the funeral of Gov. Bartlett.

"But few persons by their own merit, without the influence of family,
or party connections, have risen from one degree of honor and
confidence to another, as he did. And _fewer still_ have been the
instances, in which a succession of honorable and important offices
even to the highest, have been held by _any man_ with _less envy_;
or executed with _more general_ approbation. Despising the gaudy
exhibition of vain parade, (a sure mark of a noble mind,) he set a
shining example of frugality and economy, both in private and public
life, at a period when such virtues were peculiarly becoming and
necessary. His natural temper was open, humane, and compassionate. In
his dealings, he was scrupulously just, and faithful in the performance
of all his engagements; and in his public offices, he served his
country with all his might."

The children of Gov. Bartlett who still survive, are Hon. Ezra Bartlett
of Haverhill. N. H., and Mrs. Gale, the widow of the late Dr. Amos Gale
of Kingston. She is in her 74th year, and resides at South Hampton with
her daughter, Mrs. White.

_Dr. Levi Bartlett_ was the eldest son of Gov. Josiah Bartlett, and
was born Sept. 3, 1763. He received his preparatory education at the
then celebrated "Dummer School" in Newbury, Ms., and after studying
the science of medicine one year with his father, he completed his
professional course with Dr. Thomas Kittredge of Andover, Ms., a
distinguished physician.

Soon after, he established himself in Kingston, N. H., where his father
had been located, and who was giving up his professional business to
younger and more vigorous practitioners.

Here, and in the adjoining towns, he soon acquired an extensive
practice, and was frequently called many miles from home in
consultation. He was a skilful and successful surgeon, and performed
many important operations.

Dr. Bartlett filled many stations of trust. He was a Justice of the
Peace and Quorum throughout the state, Colonel in the militia, and
Post Master for many years. He frequently represented Kingston in the
Legislature, and for several years was a member of the Council, and
Chief Justice of the Court of Common Pleas. But being of a studious and
metaphysical turn, he preferred the quiet pleasures of private life to
the care and turmoil of the political arena.

He was married, Nov. 6, 1791, to Sally Hook, who died of consumption,
February, 1793. He married the second time, Abigail Stevens, April 18,
1807.

He was kind and obliging in his disposition, generous and humane to the
needy, and honorable and just in all his business relations.

For several years, he suffered from paralysis, and was, consequently,
unable to transact business or enjoy life. His earthly career
terminated Jan. 30, 1828, at the age of 65, leaving a widow and three
children--two daughters and one son.

_Dr. Levi Stevens Bartlett_ was born Dec. 3, 1811. He received his
academical education at Phillips Academy, Exeter. He read medicine with
his uncle, the late Hon. Josiah Bartlett of Stratham, Professor Elisha
Bartlett, at that time of Lowell, Ms., and with Dr. John Barrett of
Portland, Me. Dr. Bartlett attended the Medical Lectures at Dartmouth
and Bowdoin Colleges, and received his diploma from Dartmouth in the
year 1832, a short time before he was 21 years of age.

Having come in possession of the landed estates of his father, and the
old mansion of his grandfather, he settled at Kingston, where he now
resides, and is in the practice of his profession. He married, Dec. 3,
1844, Aroline E., daughter of Moses Sanborn, Esq.

_Dr. Amos Gale_, son of Jacob Gale, was born at East Kingston, April 9,
1744, 0. S. He studied medicine with Dr. Josiah Bartlett of Kingston,
N. H., and married Hannah, the only child of Daniel and Hannah Gilman
of Kingston, Nov. 12, 1765. They had ten children, six sons and
four daughters, six of whom are still living. His practice was very
extensive, and he was highly esteemed as a physician and citizen. He
was one of the early members of the N. H. Medical Society, and he
continued to practice medicine in Kingston and vicinity, (with the
exception of a few years, during which he resided in Troy, N. Y.,)
until a short time before his death, which occurred June 8, 1813, aged
69 years. The disease which terminated his life was paralysis. Several
young men received their medical instruction from him.

_Dr. Amos Gale, Jr._, son of the preceding, was born at Kingston, Oct.
15, 1768. He studied medicine with his father and Dr. Levi Bartlett
of Kingston, attended lectures at Boston, commenced and continued to
practise medicine in his native town till his death, which occurred
Dec. 7, 1824, aged 56 years. He was a very energetic and athletic
man, and was characterized for his great assiduity and self-denial in
the discharge of his duties as a physician. He was married to Sally,
youngest daughter of Gov. Bartlett, by whom he had seven children, five
sons and two daughters, all of whom are still living. Dr. Gale held
various offices in the town, and was Representative to the Legislature
in 1808. About twenty young men received medical education under his
instruction. He was elected a member of the N. H. Medical Society in
1800.

_Dr. Stephen Gale_, youngest son of Dr. Amos Gale, Senior, was born
Jan. 28, 1723, and studied medicine with his brother Amos. He died Aug.
13, 1804. His disease was a scrofulous affection of the knee, caused by
an injury.

_Dr. Ezra Bartlett Gale_, eldest son of Dr. Amos Gale, Jr., was born
at Kingston, Oct. 13, 1797. He studied medicine with his father and
uncle, Dr. Levi Bartlett, and attended medical lectures in Boston in
1818, and practised with his father till July, 1821, when he commenced
practice in Brentwood, N. H., and continued there till August, 1823.
In the fall of 1822, he attended a course of Medical Lectures at Brown
University, and received the degree of M. D. in 1823. He married Ruth
White, youngest daughter of the late Richard White, Esq., of South
Hampton, N. H., July 31, 1823, where he practised medicine till 1827,
when he recommenced practice in Kingston, in which place he now pursues
his professional duties. He had seven children by his first wife, four
sons and three daughters, all of whom are living. His wife died July
6, 1841. He married Emily, daughter of the late Moses Atwood, Esq., of
Atkinson, Nov. 22, 1842, by whom he has two daughters. He is a member
and officer of the N. H. Medical Society, and also of the Rockingham
Dist. Med. Society.

_Dr. Levi Bartlett Gale_, second son of Dr. Amos Gale, Jr., was born
Aug. 29, 1800. He studied medicine with his father and brother, and
attended lectures at Boston and at Brown University, where he took his
degree of M. D. He commenced and continued the practice of medicine in
Kingston till the return of his brother from South Hampton, when he
removed to Boston, where he now resides. He married Sarah B. Keggan, by
whom he has two children.

_Dr. Josiah Bartlett Gale_, third son of Dr. Amos Gale, Jr., was born
Jan. 11, 1803. He studied medicine with his brothers Ezra Bartlett and
Levi Bartlett Gale. He attended Medical Lectures at Brown University,
and commenced the practice of medicine in Brentwood, where he remained
but a short time. Thence he removed to Salisbury Mills, Ms., where
he now resides. He married Hannah, daughter of the late Capt. Jacob
Morrill of Salisbury, Ms. They have one child, a son.

_Dr. Amos Gilman Gale_, fourth son of Dr. Amos Gale, Jr., was born
Feb. 17, 1807. He commenced his medical studies with his brother
Levi Bartlett Gale, and attended two courses of Medical Lectures
at Dartmouth College, at which he received the degree of M. D. He
commenced the practice of medicine in Hooksett, N. H., where he was
employed in his profession till his removal to Manchester, N. H. He
married Mary, daughter of Hon. Richard H. Ayer, of Hooksett, by whom he
has one child, a daughter.

_Dr. Stephen Madison Gale_, fifth son of Dr. Amos Gale, Jr., was born
in Kingston, Oct. 20, 1809. He commenced the study of medicine with
his brother E. B. Gale, in 1834, studied one year with his brother L.
B. Gale in Boston, and attended three courses of Medical Lectures in
that place three years in succession, commencing in 1834, and received
his medical degree at Harvard University, 1837. He commenced practice
in Derry, N. H., September following; and thence he removed to East
Kingston, where he remained but a short time. He commenced practice in
Lowell, Dec. 1838, and from that place he removed to Methuen, July,
1839, where he has been engaged in practice ever since. He was admitted
a Fellow of the Massachusetts Medical Society, April, 1839. He married
Hannah W. Johnson of Portland, Me., March 28, 1843, by whom he has one
daughter, Alice Bartlett.

Though all the above physicians by the name of Gale have not been
located as physicians in Kingston, yet, as they were all of one family,
we have entered their names under the head of Kingston.

There has been for about eighty years in Kingston a physician of the
name of Gale, father, son, and grandsons. Very much the same may be
said of the name of Bartlett. It is believed that no two families in
our country have furnished more physicians than the Bartlett and Gale
families of Kingston. Governor Bartlett had three sons eminent as
physicians; namely, Josiah of Stratham, Levi of Kingston, and Ezra of
Haverhill, all members and officers of the Medical Society; and all
political men, Ezra and Levi having been Judges of Courts, and Josiah
a Member of Congress. Many of his grandsons are in the profession, one
of whom, Dr. Josiah Bartlett of Stratham, is now President of the New
Hampshire Medical Society.

_Dr. Thomas Bassett_ was born in Deerfield, N. H., Aug. 12, 1797. His
father was a merchant in that town, and once traded in Atkinson; but
in 1804 removed to Londonderry with his family, where he resided till
his death. His mother's name was Susannah McGregore, a descendant of
the Rev. James McGregore, who emigrated from Scotland to Ireland, and
subsequently with a number of others, to America, and commenced a
settlement in Londonderry. At the age of fifteen, Thomas commenced
the studies preparatory to entering college, under the instruction of
his uncle, Rev. David McGregore, who was then the settled minister in
Bedford, N. H., and lived with him about three years; he then left and
entered the Pinkerton Academy in Derry, under the tuition of Mr. Samuel
Burnham, and continued there until the death of his father. At this
time, finding himself destitute of pecuniary means, he was forced to
relinquish the idea of prosecuting further his collegiate studies, and
resorted to school-keeping to obtain the object he then most desired,
an education. After spending three years in this employment, he
resolved to prepare for the medical profession; and, in 1821, entered
the office of Dr. George Farrar of Derry, as a student in medicine,
where he remained till the fall of 1822, when he left, and entered the
private class of Professors Mussey, Oliver, and Dana, at Dartmouth
College, and continued with them until he had finished a regular course
of medical instruction, and received the degree of Doctor in Medicine
at the Commencement, in 1824. In March following, he established
himself at Kingston, as a physician and surgeon, where he has resided,
with the exception of a few months, to the present time, in the
practice of his profession, in that place and the neighboring towns.

In 1828, he was married to Miranda Spofford, daughter of Samuel
Spofford, and granddaughter of Major Jacob Peaslee of Kingston. In
1826 he was elected, and in 1837, became a Fellow of the N. H. Medical
Society, in which he has held the office of Censor and Counsellor. He
has been honored with the office of Justice of the Peace, and has held
the office of Brigade Major and Inspector in the first Brigade of New
Hampshire militia.




REGISTER OF BIRTHS IN DEDHAM.


This account of births in Dedham, from 1635, the time when the town
was first settled, to 1677, was copied from the Records by Dr. Elisha
Thayer. The year, name of the child and its parents, and also, the
month and the day of the month, are given in each case. The year is
considered as beginning the first day of the first month called March,
as time was then reckoned.

  Year.                                                        Day.  Month.

  1635     Mary, daughter of John and Hannah Dwight, born        25       5
           John, son of John and Joanna Balden,                  21       4

  1637     Ruth, daughter of John and Annis Morse,                3       4
           Mary, daughter of Joseph and Millecent Kingsbury,      1       7

  1638    Sarah, daughter of John and Hanna Dwight,              17       4
          Elizabeth, daughter of Joseph and Millecent Kingsbury, 14       7
          Elizabeth, daughter of Francis and Amy Chickering,     26       7
          Mary, daughter of Richard and Mary Everard,            28       7
          Elizabeth, daughter of Thomas and Mary Alcock,         24       8
          Isaac, son of John and Prudence Frary,                 29      10

  1639    Rachel, daughter of John and Alice Roper,              18       1
          Samuel, son of Richard and Mary Everard,               31       1
          Samuel, son of John and Joanna Gay,                    10       1
          Joseph, son of William and ---- Barstow,                6       4
          Obadiah, son of Daniel and Lydia Morse,                 8       6
          Mary, daughter of Edward and Susan Richards,           28       7
          Abigail, daughter of Ferdinando and Ann Adams,         15       7
          John, son of John and Annis Morse,                      8       4
          Daniel, son of Henry and Elizabeth Smith,              13       8
          John, son of James and Ann Allen,                       4      10
          Sarah, daughter of Thomas and Margery Alcock,          28      10
          Barnabas, son of Robert and Ann Linsdell,              13       9
          Benjamin, son of Ralph and Phebe Wheelock,              8       9

                          (To be continued.)




ANNIVERSARY OF THE NEW ENGLAND SOCIETY OF CINCINNATI, O.


The 226th Anniversary of the Landing of the Pilgrims at Plymouth, was
celebrated in the City of Cincinnati by the New England Society, on
Dec. 22, 1846. The services on the occasion were as follows: Prayer by
the Rev. Dr. Beecher; Reading the Scriptures by the Rev. Mr. Magoon;
Address by B. B. Fessenden, Esq.; Benediction by Rev. Dr. Stowe. With
these services appropriate music was interspersed.

On Jan. 5, 1847, the annual meeting of the Society was held, and the
Report was read by the Rev. Dr. Colton. In the Cincinnati Gazette we
find the following account, which, we doubt not, will be interesting to
our readers.

This Society was organized January 14th, 1845. Its objects are, to
cherish the memory and perpetuate the principles of the original
settlers of New England; to collect and diffuse information respecting
New England and New England emigrants to other parts of the country,
especially to the West; and to extend charity to the needy of New
England descent. It is composed of men born in New England, and the
male descendants of New England ancestors. The Society has a liberal
charter from the Legislature, and is wholly free from debt. It has
upwards of 200 members, and the number is rapidly increasing, 23 having
joined at the last meeting.

It was voted to appropriate one half the surplus in the Treasury
towards the establishment of a valuable library of historical
and antiquarian works in relation to New England, and to start
a subscription of $500 in aid of the project, of which $200 was
immediately subscribed, and it is thought the balance can be made up
this month. A catalogue of the works desired has been made out, which,
we trust, the Directors will be enabled at once to purchase. The income
of the Society this year, if this subscription is filled, will amount
to $1,100.

A Committee was appointed, to ascertain if a course of Lectures could
be prepared in time to be delivered this winter.

The Society contemplates the erection ultimately of a Hall for their
library, meetings, and lectures, for which a lot has been offered on
liberal conditions.

The following gentlemen were elected officers for the ensuing year,
(Mr. STARR having declined reëlection as President.)

_For President_, Timothy Walker. _For Vice-President_, Lot E. Brewster.
_For Corresponding Secretary_, Chauncey Colton. _For Recording
Secretary_, Henry Crane. _For Treasurer_, James Lakey. _For Directors_,
Henry Starr, Edmund Gage, Melzer Flagg, Maynard French, Jonathan H.
Niles, Wm. Wiswell, Jr.

The following gentlemen have been the Presidents and Vice-Presidents,
since its formation:

1845.--Bellamy Storer, _President_. Ephraim Robbins and Henry Emerson,
_Vice-Presidents_.

1846.--Henry Starr, _President_. Lot E. Brewster, _Vice-President_.

1847.--Timothy Walker, _President_. Lot E. Brewster, _Vice-President_.




NOTICES OF NEW PUBLICATIONS.


_Guide to Plymouth, and Recollections of the Pilgrims. By William S.
Russell._

    "_Come listen to my story,
    Though often told before,
    Of men who pass'd to glory,
    Through toil and trial sore;
    Of men who did for conscience' sake,
    Their native land forego,
    And sought a home and freedom here,
    Two hundred years ago._"

Boston: Published for the Author, by Samuel G. Drake, 56 Cornhill.
1846.

    This is a neat 12mo of about 400 pages, "designed to present
    such historical facts connected with our early history, and
    descriptions of interesting localities with which they are
    connected, as are deemed of essential importance to the
    numerous visitors who resort to the spot, rendered memorable
    as the scene where the foundations of republican institutions
    were first laid in this western world, and the principles of
    religious and civil liberty were successfully established in
    New England." The design of the author has been accomplished.
    Although much novelty can hardly be expected in relation
    to subjects which have already become trite, though not
    uninteresting, yet by a judicious collection of facts and a
    pleasing presentation of them, the work is well adapted to
    engage the attention of the reader, and to furnish him with
    the information desired. It commences with a brief detail of
    the circumstances, which led our Pilgrim Fathers to leave
    the land of their birth and embark for a country of pathless
    wildernesses, abounding in savage beasts and still more savage
    men. It follows them in their voyage, through storms and perils
    to them unknown before; it describes their arrival at Cape Cod,
    the sufferings, privations, and hardships they endured, and the
    subsequent increase and growth of the infant Colony, all in a
    manner highly instructive. The various places of interest to a
    traveller in the town of Plymouth are distinctly and minutely
    pointed out, and many matters of importance are related
    concerning them. Several ancient documents of great value are
    also inserted, together with some notice of the Pilgrims. The
    volume closes with a collection of Hymns and Songs, selected
    from the productions of our best authors, composed with express
    reference to Anniversary Celebrations in Plymouth and other
    parts of the United States. The work is embellished with a map
    of Plymouth village in 1846, a frontispiece engraving of the
    town and harbor of Plymouth, also several other designs. It is
    a book eminently useful to the traveller, and valuable to the
    historian.

       *       *       *       *       *

_The History of Charlestown, Massachusetts. By Richard Frothingham,
Jr. "The History of a Town is united with that of the Country to which
it belongs, and with that of the ages through which it has stood."_
Charlestown: Charles P. Emmons. Boston: Charles C. Little and James
Brown. 1845.

    This is a work issued in numbers of about 50 pages each. The
    author states, in the commencement, his sources of information
    to be, the town Records; Records of the first church in the
    town; the Colony Records; the Probate and Registry Records; and
    private collections of papers. From such materials we should
    think a most perfect history can be made. We are pleased to
    see an interest arising in the minds of many, concerning our
    local or town histories, for by this means only can that of
    the state be rendered accurate. "Each town has some noted spot
    where the Indian may have fought for his burial-places, or the
    colonists for their freedom; that may have sheltered a hermit
    or a regicide; that superstition may have invested with a fairy
    legend, or nature have robed with more than fairy magnificence.
    Each has its Liberty Tree, its Green Dragon, its Faneuil Hall,
    where its patriots may have counselled or acted. And each has
    had citizens who laid its foundations, perhaps in hardship
    and danger." It is for the local annalist to gather these
    traditions and facts, from which the state historian may form
    a comprehensive and accurate account. This work is embellished
    with quite a number of interesting engravings. Four numbers
    have appeared, containing much useful and curious matter, and
    we hope soon to see the remainder. The work is highly deserving
    public patronage, and we hope that Charlestown and its vicinity
    especially, will amply reward the author for his indefatigable
    labors.

       *       *       *       *       *

_A Gazetteer of Massachusetts, containing Descriptions of all the
Counties, Towns, and Districts of the Commonwealth; and also, of
its principal Mountains, Rivers, Capes, Bays, Harbors, Islands, and
Fashionable Resorts. To which are added Statistical Accounts of its
Agriculture, Commerce, and Manufactures; with a great variety of useful
Information. By John Hayward, Author of the "New England Gazetteer,"
"Book of Religions," &c._ Boston: John Hayward. 1846.

    This is decidedly a valuable work. The name of the author
    alone would guarantee an elaborate, and, so far as within
    his ability, a strictly accurate publication. It presents
    Massachusetts in a statistical, historical, and topographical
    light, and is filled with such matter as would be deeply
    interesting to the antiquary, and the man of business, indeed
    to all in Massachusetts who take any pleasure in knowing
    the condition and prosperity of their own state. It is a
    work useful for reference in regard to education, internal
    improvements, matters of commercial importance--and may be
    regarded as a universal Gazetteer. We cheerfully commend it to
    the patronage of the public.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Epitaphs from the Old Burying-Ground in Cambridge. With Notes,
by William Thaddeus Harris, Junior Sophister in Harvard College._
Cambridge: Published by John Owen.

    It has been, and still is, the disposition of the public, to
    regard the resting-places of the deceased with aversion, rather
    than with pleasurable interest. This we think should not be the
    case. "Forget not the faithful dead" is worthy to be inscribed
    at the entrance of every cemetery, and these, instead of being
    permitted to run to waste, should be adorned, and made pleasing
    to the sight. Thus the grave may be divested of its gloom, and
    the graveyard, now an object of terror, may become frequented
    as a place for calm, serious, and profitable meditation.

    In this volume a complete transcript is made of the epitaphs
    in the burying-ground, from 1653 to the year 1800; but in the
    years succeeding 1800, with a few exceptions, the names only
    of those, to whose memory monuments have been erected, are
    given. In addition to these, which are 670 in number, there are
    brief notices of many, whose monumental inscriptions are given.
    A table, also, of the deaths of many, whose monuments have
    crumbled to dust, or whose remains were deposited in tombs, is
    appended. It is a volume of 192 pages, octavo, printed at the
    University press, and must be interesting to those who delight
    in curious and antiquated matters. We hope others will be
    induced to prepare like collections from those spots where,

    "Each in his narrow cell forever laid,
    The rude forefathers of the hamlet sleep."

    The author is a son of Thaddeus William Harris. M. D.,
    Librarian of the University, and grandson of the late Rev.
    Thaddeus Mason Harris, D. D., of Dorchester. We may at some
    future time make extracts from the work.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Loring's Massachusetts Register, or Record Book of Valuable
Information, for the year 1817. Designed as a Suitable Companion for
the Professional Man, the Merchant, the Public Officer, and the Private
Citizen._ Boston: James Loring, 132 Washington Street.

    This volume is the _eightieth_ of the Massachusetts Register,
    and its value as a work of reference will, we think, be
    appreciated by the public for as many years to come. Such a
    work is much needed by all classes of business men throughout
    the state. It comprises statistics of civil officers;
    professional men; societies and associations, literary,
    scientific, religious, and benevolent; commerce; mercantile
    affairs; naval and military officers; courts and justices;
    institutions of learning, and also those for benevolent
    purposes; corporations of all kinds. It is literally _multum
    in parvo_. Mr. Loring, who has much of a historical taste,
    deserves great praise for his endeavors to render it accurate
    and useful; and it should have an extensive circulation in the
    state.

    The publishers of the Register have been as follows:

    In 1767, Mein and Fleming, at the London Bookstore, north
    side of King street, now State street; in 1774, Mills and
    Hicks, School street, next door to Brackett's Tavern, sign
    of Cromwell's Head; in 1779, Thomas and John Fleet, sign of
    the Bible and Heart, corner of Cornhill and Water street; in
    1801, John West and Manning and Loring, until 1813, when its
    publishers were West, Richardson, and Lord, and the present
    publisher, who has been a proprietor for forty-six years past.

       *       *       *       *       *

_A Statistical View of the Population of Massachusetts, from 1765 to
1840. By Jesse Chickering._ Boston: Charles C. Little and James Brown.
1846. pp. 160.

    "The object of this essay is to exhibit the increase of the
    population of Massachusetts, and the changes which have taken
    place in the number and proportion of the inhabitants in
    the several parts of the Commonwealth, during the period of
    seventy-five years from 1765 to 1840." "The censuses consulted
    in the preparation of this work are the Colonial census,
    ordered in 1764 and finished in 1765, and the six censuses of
    the United States, taken at intervals of ten years, from 1790
    to 1840." The number of inhabitants in Massachusetts in 1765,
    from various calculations is estimated at 244,149, exclusive of
    1,569 Indians. In 1790, according to the United States census
    published in 1791, the population was 378,787, which is adopted
    as the true number; in 1800 it was 422,845; in 1810, 472,040;
    in 1820, 523,287; in 1830, 610,408; and in 1840, 737,700.

    The U. S. censuses of 1790, 1800, and 1820 were taken August
    1st; and those of 1810, 1830, and 1840 were taken July 1st; so
    that the intervals between the second and third, and the fourth
    and fifth were two months _less_ than ten years, while that
    between the third and fourth was two months _more_ than ten
    years. These differences in the length of the intervals affect
    the numerical results, but so slightly, as not to be materially
    important in the comparative results, especially for so long
    a period as from 1790 to 1840. The least increase discovered
    in any period is in that embracing the time from 1810 to 1820;
    probably owing in some degree to the war then existing with
    Great Britain and the emigration of many citizens to the West.
    In the period from 1765 to 1790, the increase was greater than
    it has ever been.

    The increase of Boston, in proportion to its inhabitants, from
    1765 to 1790 was very much less than that of the country towns,
    while from 1790 to 1840 it was very much greater, thus showing
    the modern tendency to centralization. Besides the great amount
    of statistical matter of which the above is an exceedingly
    brief epitome, it contains a table showing the average number
    of inhabitants in each year, according to the U. S. censuses,
    together with the increase, on the supposition of a uniform
    rate of increase in each year, the same being carried on to
    1850, at the rate of increase from 1830 to 1840. Much other
    valuable matter is contained in this publication; manifestly of
    great labor and of apparent accuracy. Such a work as this of
    Dr. Chickering was much needed to rectify the many errors which
    had arisen in the taking and computing the censuses. We only
    add, that could such a statistical view be taken of every state
    in the Union, many important facts would be discovered and many
    data be obtained, from which inferences might perhaps be drawn
    greatly interesting and useful.

       *       *       *       *       *

_A Discourse delivered before The Maine Historical Society at its
Annual Meeting. September 6, 1846. By George Folsom. "But I doubt not
* * * it will prove a very flourishing place, and be replenished with
many faire Towns and Cities, it being a Province both fruitful and
pleasant."_--F. Gorges. Description of the Province of Maine. Portland:
Published for the Society. 1847.

    The subject of this discourse is the early discovery and
    settlement of Maine, and the character of those who were most
    active in the work of colonization. It clearly indicates the
    author to be a man of historical research not only in regard to
    the state of Maine, but also in respect to New England and the
    early settlers generally. It is well worth the careful perusal,
    both of those who are fond of historic lore, and those who are
    searching for truth; as it contains facts which are important
    and are not generally known.

    Mr. Folsom concludes his discourse of 75 pages as follows:
    "In my humble opinion, Maine owes some public acknowledgment
    to the memory of Sir Ferdinando Gorges, for having laid the
    foundation of its existence as a separate and independent
    community. Bradford and Winthrop are names that will never
    die amongst their successors at Plymouth and Massachusetts
    Bay; Pennsylvania will never forget her obligations to the
    illustrious Friend of humanity who peopled her wilderness; nor
    will Georgia suffer the memory of the enlightened Oglethorpe
    to perish; Maryland has stamped the name of Baltimore upon
    her brilliant commercial metropolis, and North Carolina has
    her 'city of Raleigh,' although the projected colony of Sir
    Walter proved a splendid failure. And shall Maine do nothing
    to mark her sense of the merits of the liberal patron and
    successful abettor of the first settlements within her limits;
    who expended a large fortune upon his projects of discovery and
    colonization; who, when the country was abandoned and denounced
    by others as too cold and dreary for human habitation, actually
    hired men to pass the winter here to prove the contrary; and
    who died without reaping any substantial return for all his
    labors and outlays, leaving only a legacy of lawsuits to his
    descendants? It is time that justice was done to his memory.
    From the small beginning he made, this community has become
    a widely extended, populous, and wealthy state--rich in her
    resources, and not less distinguished for the active enterprise
    and laborious industry of her population. She can well afford
    to honor the memory of the man who foresaw all this, and
    devoted the energies of a long life to its consummation."

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Sin and Danger of Self-Love, described in a Sermon preached at
Plymouth, in New England, 1621, by Robert Cushman. With a Memoir of the
Author._ Boston: Published by Charles Ewer, and for sale by Crocker
& Brewster, Samuel G. Drake, Little & Brown, James Munroe & Company,
Benjamin Perkins, and James Loring. Dec. 22, 1846.

    The text from which this sermon was written is, 1 Cor. x.:24.
    _Let no man seek his own: but every man another's wealth._ It
    is divided into two parts: 1. A _Dehortation_, consisting of
    the first clause. 2. An _Exhortation_, comprising the latter
    clause. The design of the discourse was to keep up the noble
    flow of public spirit in the emigrants, which perhaps then
    began to abate, through their accumulating hardships and
    sufferings, but which was necessary for their preservation
    and security. The author exhorts his hearers to assist each
    other in their labors and toils, to distribute their property
    among those that were needy, and so far as consistent to seek
    their neighbors' happiness and prosperity. "The discourse is a
    precious relic of ancient times. The sound sense, good advice,
    and pious spirit, which it manifests, will, it may be hoped,
    now, and in all future time, meet with approval and beneficial
    acceptance in our community." It is written in the quaint
    old-fashioned style of our Forefathers, and we noticed that the
    last head of remarks, which contains but one sentence, is just
    a page in length. The discourse is preceded by a Biographical
    Sketch of Mr. Cushman, by the late Hon. John Davis of Boston,
    together with a letter from him to Charles Ewer, Esq., and
    a brief Address by Mr. Cushman to "his Loving Friends the
    Adventurers for New England, together with all Well-Willers
    and Well-Wishers thereunto," dated "Plymouth in New England,
    December 12, 1621." These several articles form a pamphlet of
    32 pages, well printed, which, on account of its Christian and
    patriotic principles, should be generally diffused. For this
    improved edition, we are indebted to the liberality of the
    publisher.

       *       *       *       *       *

_Deficiencies in our History. An Address, delivered before the Vermont
Historical and Antiquarian Society, at Montpelier, October 16, 1846,
with an Appendix containing the Charter, Constitution, and By-Laws of
the Society, the Vermont Declaration of Independence, January 15, 1777,
the Proceedings of the Convention, 4th of June, 1777, and the Song of
the Vermonters, in 1779. By James Davie Butler, Professor in Norwich
University_. Montpelier: Eastman and Danforth. 1846.

    The design of this address seems to be, to illustrate the
    importance of preserving the fragmentary and unpublished
    history of Vermont, a state which for interest in its early
    history is surpassed by no other in the Union. Notwithstanding
    this, however, it has been greatly neglected. Prof. Butler
    urges strongly upon the members of the Society to exert
    themselves to repair the losses, and give to the world an
    honorable account of the Green Mountain State. While others
    have given partial and one-sided details of her history, no
    true son has arisen to vindicate her honor. Says Mr. Butler,
    "Let us leave our history to be written by foreigners,
    and it will be the play of Hamlet with the part of Hamlet
    omitted.--The Genius of history says to us, all and each, that
    thou doest do quickly; like the sibyl to the ancient king, she
    year by year brings with her fewer and fewer antique records,
    but unlike the sibyl demands for them an even increasing
    price.--The records of our fathers have in part perished with
    them,--some of them live in the memories of patriarchs, who
    still stand among us with eyes undimmed and natural force not
    abated, as if on purpose that such as hold the pen of the
    ready writer may still embalm their sayings.--Let us redeem
    the time, since if our old men pass away unquestioned, no
    buried Pompeii can be raised from the grave to enlighten our
    wilful ignorance." The discourse is interspersed throughout
    with historical gems, and in connection with the additional
    documents forms a valuable production.

    Professor Butler has kindly furnished us with a genealogical
    account of the Butler Family, which will be inserted in the
    next No. of the Register.

       *       *       *       *       *

_The Patrician: Edited by John Burke, Esq., Author of the Peerage,
Landed Gentry, &c._ May, 1846. London: E. Churton, 26 Holles Street.
pp. 94.

    The dedication of the work is as follows:

    To the Right Honorable Lord Leigh, of Stoneleigh, the first
    volume of the Patrician is respectfully inscribed.

    The number before us is the _first_ of the first volume. Ten
    have already been issued. It is a work devoted to History,
    Genealogy, Heraldry, Topography, Antiquities, and General
    Literature. Each number contains a long list of births,
    marriages, and deaths. The editor must be a man of varied
    learning, and particularly acquainted with the subjects
    of which he treats. The work is not adapted to the public
    generally, and must, therefore, be limited in circulation.
    As an English production it may be interesting to the higher
    classes or nobility of England; but it cannot attract the
    attention of Americans.




  +-------------------------------------------------------------------
  |
  | PROSPECTUS
  |
  | OF THE
  |
  | NEW ENGLAND
  |
  | HISTORICAL AND GENEALOGICAL REGISTER.
  |
  | REV. WILLIAM COGSWELL, D. D., EDITOR.
  |
  |
  | The NEW ENGLAND HISTORIC, GENEALOGICAL SOCIETY proposes to
  | publish by subscription a Quarterly Journal, to be entitled,
  | "THE NEW ENGLAND HISTORICAL AND GENEALOGICAL REGISTER." The
  | period has arrived in this country, when an awakened and
  | a growing interest begins to be felt in the pursuit, and
  | especially in the results, of Historical and Genealogical
  | Researches; and when the practical value, both to individuals
  | and to society, of the knowledge which is obtained by
  | investigations of this kind, from the scattered and perishable
  | records of local, domestic, and traditionary history, begins
  | to be appreciated by increasing numbers. The existence and
  | active exertions of Historical, Antiquarian, and Statistical
  | Societies, which have sprung up within a few years past in most
  | of the older states of the Union, are a sufficient evidence of
  | this fact.
  |
  | The formation of the NEW ENGLAND HISTORIC, GENEALOGICAL
  | SOCIETY, which has received a Charter from the Massachusetts
  | Legislature, and which, as its name imports, proposes to
  | direct its attention to the illustration of History in one
  | of its most elemental and original departments, has been
  | received with a degree of encouragement and favor, which
  | leaves no room to doubt that a deep interest is felt by many
  | in the community, in subjects of this nature; and that the
  | materials exist, in various stages of preparation, as the
  | fruit of personal exertions, for enriching the collections of
  | a general Depository; and thereby leading to a more extensive
  | diffusion of the facts and documents, out of which this
  | branch of Literature in our country has yet to be principally
  | created. The Periodical to be issued by this Society, will be
  | one important means of accomplishing the end in view. It will
  | comprehend such materials as the following; namely,
  |
  | 1. Biographical Memoirs, Sketches, and Notices of Persons who
  | came to North America, especially to New England, before Anno
  | Domini 1700; showing from what places in Europe they came,
  | their families there, and their descendants in this country;
  |
  | 2. Full and minute Genealogical Memoirs and Tables, showing
  | the lineage and descent of Families, from the earliest dates
  | to which they can be authentically traced, down to the present
  | time, with their branches and connections;
  |
  | 3. Tables of Longevity, Statistical and Biographical, Accounts
  | of Attorneys, Physicians, Ministers and Churches of all
  | denominations, of Graduates at Colleges, Governors, Senators
  | and Representatives in Congress, Military Officers, Merchants,
  | and other persons of distinction; and occasionally entire
  | Tracts, which have become rare and of permanent Historical
  | value;
  |
  | 4. Lists of Names, found in ancient documents, such especially
  | as were engaged in any honorable public service; also the
  | documents themselves, when they may contain any important facts
  | illustrative of the lives and actions of individuals;
  |
  | 5. Descriptions of the Costumes, Dwellings, and Utensils of
  | various kinds, belonging to the earliest times to which the
  | Ancestry of Families may be traced; to be accompanied, when
  | practicable, with drawings or engravings;
  |
  | 6. Ancient Inscriptions and Epitaphs, with descriptions of
  | Cemeteries, Monuments, Tombs, Tablets; also, extracts from the
  | Town and Parish Records of New England;
  |
  | 7. Descriptions of Armorial Bearings, and of other Heraldic
  | devices, occasionally emblazoned, with sufficient explanations
  | of the principles and terms of Heraldry.
  |
  | The Publication will embrace many other materials of a
  | Miscellaneous and Statistical character, more or less connected
  | with its main design; which, it is believed, will contribute to
  | render it interesting to intelligent persons of every class in
  | the community.
  |
  | Each Number will be embellished with a Portrait of some
  | distinguished individual. There will also occasionally be other
  | engravings in the work.
  |
  |
  | CONDITIONS.
  |
  | The Work will be issued Quarterly, each Number containing at
  | least ninety-six pages, octavo, upon good paper, and with fair
  | type; making annually a volume of about four hundred pages; the
  | Numbers to be issued in January, April, July, and October.
  |
  | The price to Subscribers will be TWO DOLLARS a year, payable on
  | issuing the first Number. Any person obtaining subscriptions
  | and becoming responsible, for six copies of the work, shall be
  | entitled to the seventh copy gratis.
  |
  | Subscription Papers to be returned to the address of SAMUEL G.
  | DRAKE, Publisher, 56 Cornhill, Boston.
  |
  |
  | NOTICE.
  |
  | All communications, which are designed for insertion in the
  | Register, or which respect the editorial department, should be
  | addressed to the Editor, at Boston.
  |
  | All orders for the Register, and all communications respecting
  | the pecuniary concerns of it, should be directed to Samuel G.
  | Drake, 56 Cornhill, Boston.
  |
  | *       *       *       *       *
  |
  | ☞In the Press, and will soon be published, the History of
  | Shrewsbury, by A. H. Ward, Esq., in which will appear a
  | Genealogical Table or Family Register, containing a History of
  | the inhabitants from the settlement of Shrewsbury, in 1717, to
  | 1829, and of some of them to a later period; so far as regards
  | their marriages, children, ages, and deaths; and also their
  | ancestors, so far as can be obtained.
  |
  +-------------------------------------------------------------------




    Transcriber's Notes:


    Silently corrected simple spelling, grammar, and typographical
    errors.

    Retained anachronistic and non-standard spellings as printed.

    Enclosed italics markup in _underscores_.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The New England Historical and
Genealogical Register, Vol. I., by Various

